VIKING An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC 1745 Broadway, New York, NY 10019 penguinrandomhouse.com Copyright © 2026 by Katherine Woodward Thomas Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems. A Penguin Life Book VIKING is a registered trademark of Penguin Random House LLC. Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reprint the following: Excerpt from “Lesson 21: Release Ceremony” from Calling in “The One” Revised and Expanded: 7 Weeks to Attract the Love of Your Life by Katherine Woodward Thomas, copyright © 2005, 2021 by Katherine Woodward Thomas. Used by permission of Harmony Books, an imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. All rights reserved. Excerpt from “Introduction” from The Cancer Journals by Audre Lorde, copyright © 1980 by Audre Lorde. Used by permission of Penguin Classics, an imprint of Penguin Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. All rights reserved. Cover design: Vanessa Mendozzi Designed by Nerylsa Dijol, adapted for ebook by Estelle Malmed Library of Congress Control Number: 2025032508 Hardcover ISBN 9780593994405 Ebook ISBN 9780593994412 The authorized representative in the EU for product safety and compliance is Penguin Random House Ireland, Morrison Chambers, 32 Nassau Street, Dublin D02 YH68, Ireland, https://eu-contact.penguin.ie . prhid_prh_7.4a_154906771_c0_r0To my mother, Sandra Woodward Pullman, who woke up with meContents Dedication Introduction: My Story Part One: 7 Steps of True You True You Premises Step 1: Claim a Positive, Possible Future Step 2: Name Your Source Fracture Story Step 3: Wake Up to the True You Step 4: See Yourself as Source Step 5: Identify New Ways of Relating Step 6: Embrace a Growth Mindset Step 7: Make New Choices, Take New Actions Creating the Future of Our World Part Two: True You Breakthrough Blueprint How to Use This Breakthrough Blueprint I Am Alone I Am Bad I Don’t Belong I Am a Burden I Am Crazy I Am Damaged Goods I Am Different I Am Disgusting I Am Not Enough I Am a Failure I Am Not Important I Am Invisible I Am Not Loved I Don’t Matter I Am Powerless I Am Not Safe I Am Stupid I Am Too Much I Am Unworthy I Am Not Valuable I Am Not Wanted I Am Wrong Acknowledgments Note to Therapists, Counselors, and Coaches Glossary Selected Bibliography About the Author _154906771_Introduction My Story Above all, be the heroine of your life, not the victim. —Nora Ephron My library, much like yo