Thank you for downloading this Simon & Schuster ebook. Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.We hope you enjoyed reading this Simon & Schuster ebook. Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.Contents – Part 1 – This Thing Called Sleep Chapter 1  To Sleep . . . Chapter 2  Caffeine, Jet Lag, and Melatonin: Losing and Gaining Control of Your Sleep Rhythm Chapter 3  Defining and Generating Sleep: Time Dilation and What We Learned from a Baby in 1952 Chapter 4  Ape Beds, Dinosaurs, and Napping with Half a Brain: Who Sleeps, How Do We Sleep, and How Much? Chapter 5  Changes in Sleep Across the Life Span – Part 2 – Why Should You Sleep? Chapter 6  Your Mother and Shakespeare Knew: The Benefits of Sleep for the Brain Chapter 7  Too Extreme for the Guinness Book of World Records : Sleep Deprivation and the Brain Chapter 8  Cancer, Heart Attacks, and a Shorter Life: Sleep Deprivation and the Body – Part 3 – How and Why We Dream Chapter 9  Routinely Psychotic: REM-Sleep Dreaming Chapter 10 Dreaming as Overnight Therapy Chapter 11 Dream Creativity and Dream Control – Part 4 – From Sleeping Pills to Society Transformed Chapter 12 Things That Go Bump in the Night: Sleep Disorders and Death Caused by No Sleep Chapter 13 iPads, Factory Whistles, and Nightcaps: What’s Stopping You from Sleeping? Chapter 14 Hurting and Helping Your Sleep: Pills vs. Therapy Chapter 15 Sleep and Society: What Medicine and Education Are Doing Wrong; What Google and NASA Are Doing Right Chapter 16 A New Vision for Sleep in the Twenty-First Century Conclusion: To Sleep or Not to Sleep Acknowledgments About the Author Appendix: Twelve Tips for Healthy Sleep Illustration PermissionsTo Dacher Keltner, for inspiring me to write.PART 1 This Thing Called SleepCHAPTER 1 To Sleep . . . Do you think you got enough sleep this past week? Can you recall the last time you woke up without an alarm clock feeling refreshed, not needing caffeine? If the answer to either of these questions is “no,” you are not alone. Two-thirds of adults throughout all developed nations fail to obtain the recommended eight hours of nightly sleep. I I doubt you are surprised by this fact, but you may be surprised by the consequences. Routinely sleeping less than six or seven hours a night demolishes your immune system