What Every Engineer Should Know About Data-­Driven Analytics provides a com­
prehensive introduction to the theoretical concepts and approaches of machine learn­
ing that are used in predictive data analytics. By introducing the theory and providing 
practical applications, this text can be understood by students of every engineering 
discipline. It offers a detailed and focused treatment of the important machine learn­
ing approaches and concepts that can be exploited to build models to enable decision 
making in different domains.
	•	 Utilizes practical examples from different disciplines and sectors within 
engineering and other related technical areas to demonstrate how to go from 
data, to insight, and to decision making.
	•	 Introduces various approaches to building models that exploit different 
algorithms.
	•	 Discusses predictive models that can be built through machine learning and 
used to mine patterns from large datasets.
	•	 Explores the augmentation of technical and mathematical materials with 
explanatory worked examples.
	•	 Includes a glossary, self-­assessments, and worked-­out practice exercises.
Written to be accessible to non-­experts in the subject, this comprehensive introduc­
tory text is suitable for students, professionals, and researchers in engineering and 
data science.
What Every Engineer 
Should Know About 
Data-Driven Analytics
What Every Engineer Should Know
Series Editor
Phillip A. Laplante
Pennsylvania State University
What Every Engineer Should Know about MATLAB® and Simulink ®
Adrian B. Biran
Green Entrepreneur Handbook: The Guide to Building and Growing a Green and 
Clean Business
Eric Koester
What Every Engineer Should Know about Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Joanna F. DeFranco
What Every Engineer Should Know about Modeling and Simulation
Raymond J. Madachy and Daniel Houston
What Every Engineer Should Know about Excel, Second Edition
J.P. Holman and Blake K. Holman
Technical Writing: A Practical Guide for Engineers, Scientists, and Nontechnical 
Professionals, Second Edition
Phillip A. Laplante
What Every Engineer Should Know about the Internet of Things
Joanna F. DeFranco and Mohamad Kassab
What Every Engineer Should Know about Software Engineering
Phillip A. Laplante and Mohamad Kassab
What Every Engineer Should Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Joanna F. DeFranco and Bob Maley
Ethical Engineering: A Practical Guide with Case Studies
Eugene Schlossberger
What Every Engineer Should Know About Data-Driven Analytics
Phillip A. Laplante and Satish Mahadevan Srinivasan
What Every Engineer Should Know About Reliability and Risk Analysis
Mohammad Modarres and Katrina Groth
For more information about this se	 ries, please visit: www.routledge.com/What-
Every-Engineer-Should-Know/book-series/CRCWEESK
