
















WHAT LOVERS DO












JEWEL E. ANN



















This book is a work of fiction. Any resemblances to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales are purely coincidental.
Copyright © 2022 by Jewel E. Ann
ISBN 978-1-955520-09-6
Ebook Edition
All rights reserved.
Cover Designer: Jenn Beach
Formatting: Jenn Beach










To every person who has been kind to a fault, you are not weak. You are the light illuminating everyone around you.












“A woman’s heart is a deep ocean of secrets.”
~Rose DeWitt Bukater, Titanic

















CONTENTS







Chapter One


Chapter Two


Chapter Three


Chapter Four


Chapter Five


Chapter Six


Chapter Seven


Chapter Eight


Chapter Nine


Chapter Ten


Chapter Eleven


Chapter Twelve


Chapter Thirteen


Chapter Fourteen


Chapter Fifteen


Chapter Sixteen


Chapter Seventeen


Chapter Eighteen


Chapter Nineteen


Chapter Twenty


Chapter Twenty-One


Chapter Twenty-Two


Chapter Twenty-Three


Chapter Twenty-Four


Chapter Twenty-Five


Chapter Twenty-Six


Chapter Twenty-Seven


Chapter Twenty-Eight


Chapter Twenty-Nine


Chapter Thirty


Chapter Thirty-One


Chapter Thirty-Two


Chapter Thirty-Three


Chapter Thirty-Four


Chapter Thirty-Five


Chapter Thirty-Six


Chapter Thirty-Seven


Chapter Thirty-Eight


Chapter Thirty-Nine


Chapter Forty


Chapter Forty-One


Chapter Forty-Two


Epilogue




Preview of ONE


Acknowledgments


Also by Jewel E. Ann


About the Author

















CHAPTER ONE







SOPHIE



The neighbors called 9-1-1. They thought my dad whacked off my finger with the weed eater because of my blood-curdling scream coupled with the dripping crimson from my hand. Minutes later, an officer arrived at our house only to discover an injured garter snake. I called him Hercules—the snake, not the officer. We kept him in a plastic container with newspapers on the bottom, small holes in the lid, a dish of water, and a steady diet of guppies and earthworms.
He recovered weeks later, and we released him back into the wild. Dad promised to be more careful when using the mower and weed eater.
Hercules wasn’t the first snake I rescued, but to this day, I believe he was the most grateful one.
“I’m running down to CVS to get some condoms.” Jimmy shoves his bare feet into his grungy white high-tops while rifling through my handbag.
His shoes should be burned. When he removes them, the repulsive blackened insoles exude an odor akin to meat that’s been left on the counter for three days. He lost his job two months ago, and now he showers every three to four days.
“For what?” I ask, my last nerve frayed and inflamed. At this point, he could sneeze and I’d likely stab him fifty times with the butcher knife he got me for my birthday. I can already hear the prosecution making their case and including that little nugget of information.
“Wow, Sophie. You’ve forgotten what condoms are used for. Understandable, since we haven’t had sex in over a month.”
He’s righ