




 





Praise forW. G. SEBALD AND
AUSTERLITZ 

“With untraceable swiftness and assurance, W. G. Sebald’s writing conjures from the details and sequences of daily life, and their circumstances and encounters, from apparent chance and its unsounded calculus, the dimension of dream and a sense of the depth of time that makes his books, one by one, indispensable. He evokes at once the minutiae and the vastness of individual existence, the inconsolable sorrow of history and the scintillating beauty of the moment and its ground of memory. Each book seems to be something that surely was impossible, and each (upon every re-reading) is unique and astonishing.”
—W. S. MERWIN
 

“With W. G. Sebald’s haunting new book, Austerlitz, we are transported to a memoryscape—a twilight, fogbound world of half-remembered images and ghosts that is reminiscent at once of Ingmar Bergman’s Wild Strawberries, Kafka’s troubled fables of guilt and apprehension, and, of course, Proust’s Remembrance of Things Past .… [Austerlitz] serves as the perfect introduction to Mr. Sebald’s work for readers unfamiliar with his ouevre while standing on its own as a powerful and resonant work of the historical imagination.”
—MICHIKO KAKUTANI, The New York Times
 

“Sebald stands with Primo Levi as the prime speaker of the Holocaust and, with him, the prime contradiction of Adorno’s dictum that after it, there can be no art.”
—The New York Times Book Review
 

“Sebald is the Joyce of the twenty-first century. His tale of one man’s odyssey through the dark ages of European history, which synthesizes a canon of Continental thought and literature, is one of the most moving and true fictions on the postwar world.”
—The Times (London)
 

“W. G. Sebald is a monster—a gorgeous and unwaveringly assured writer, a bold formal innovator, and a man always plunging into the core of identity, singular and national. In Austerlitz, he’s created his richest and most emotionally devastating story.”
—DAVE EGGERS
 

“One emerges from a Sebald novel shaken, seduced, and deeply impressed.”
—ANITA BROOKNER
 

“A remarkable writer—a sort of Teutonic Borges domiciled in England.”
—SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE
 

“One of the most original new voices to have come out of Europe in recent years.”
—PAUL AUSTER
 

“If you thought literary modernism was dead, guess again. The spirit of such masters as Kafka and Borges lives on in the novels of W. G. Sebald. For Mr. Sebald, not only do ‘big questions’ still exist, but so do the desire and the will to answer them.”
—The Wall Street Journal
  






 





Contents 

Cover
Title Page
Introduction
 
First Page

About the Author
Copyright
  





INTRODUCTION 






JAMES WOOD
In the summer of 1967, a man who remains unnamed but who resembles the author W. G. Sebald, is visiting Belgium. At the Centraal Station in Antwerp, he sees a fellow traveler, with fair, curiously wavy hair, who is wearing heavy walking boots, workman’s trousers made of blue calico, and a well-made but ant