




















Dedication
To Crystal, who taught me that the more you grieve,
the more you have loved . . .
. . . and to anyone who has missed a last goodbye
with someone they love.









Book Girls Get to Say Goodbye
I always thought Vanessa was a book girl.
She had all the telltale signs of a book girl. The giant house at the edge of town that her parents remodeled every ten years to keep up with trends—including the floor-to-ceiling bookcases that lined every wall of her room; a super-cute artist boyfriend who always seemed to have some romantic gesture up his paint-covered sleeve; and that thing.
That indescribable thing that makes people want to be around them. Maybe it’s the fact that she was outspoken in a way even teachers couldn’t get mad about because she delivered every argument with a smile that lit her eyes. Perhaps it was the fact that her screen name was literally @alaskabookgirl, and thousands of people followed her to see what she had to say. Or maybe it’s because she was pretty. Really pretty. Belonged-on-the-cover-of-a-book pretty.
And she was a good friend. The best friend, one might argue. The kind of friend who would drop a bag full of junk food off at your door during the second week of quarantine or post picture collages on your birthday with captions about how much you mean to her—and demand that everyone go follow you right-this-instant because someday you would change the world. She was the perfect example of the leading girl in any book I’ve ever read—and probably all the books Vanessa read too.
But maybe I was wrong. Maybe she wasn’t a book girl.
Because the book girls get the perfect senior year. They apply to college, wear a sweatshirt on Decision Day, and talk to their friends about what happens after—how they’ll see each other every summer and what if they meet up in Mexico for spring break.
They get to go to prom with their boyfriend. And of course, their comedic best friend they’ve had since childhood would bring her date too. They’ve been talking about a prom for the books since freshman year—how the book girl would wear a gown that looked like it was made of crystals. They’d rent a limo and drive all the way out to Anchorage for dinner and all the way back for the dance.
Book girls get to have a big graduation party where their parents look the other way while they sneak a keg in. And they get to kiss their boyfriend under the midnight sun before sneaking off with that same comedic-relief best friend, whispering promises about how they aren’t going to let college change them—that they’ll always be there for each other.
No matter what.
But the biggest difference between Vanessa and a real book girl is that book girls get to say goodbye. Even if it’s that last day before leaving for college or during a messy breakup with their high school sweetheart. Even on their deathbed (which was foreshadowed, by the way), they get that awful moment where friends and family come in and hold their hand and say things