




Also by María Gainza
Optic Nerve








María Gainza

PORTRAIT OF AN UNKNOWN LADY
Translated from the Spanish by Thomas Bunstead









VINTAGE
UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | AustraliaNew Zealand | India | South Africa
Vintage is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at global.penguinrandomhouse.com.

First published by Harvill Secker in 2022First published with the title La Luz Negra by Editorial Anagrama in 2018
Copyright © María Gainza 2018English translation copyright © Thomas Bunstead 2022
The moral right of the author has been asserted
Cover Photograph Untitled © Johanna NaukkkarinenCover Design © Suzanne DeanHand Lettering © Anneka Sandher
ISBN: 978-1-473-59726-6
This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.








For Azucena








Herself
There I was, finally, at the Hotel Étoile. It said no vacancies on the door but I went in anyway and asked for a room. They gave me one on the tenth floor: view of the cemetery, Italian marble bath, Louis XVI writing desk, raft-sized bed the pillows of which were encrusted with little bonbons in burnished wrappers, like rhinestones in the snow. I told the concierge my husband was going to be along later with the luggage, but my husband wasn’t ever going to be along. I’m not a person to lie to someone’s face but in this instance it was out of my hands.
I checked in under the made-up name of María Lydis. Nobody asked for any papers; had they done so, they might perhaps have recognised the art critic I once was. But with my mangy black fur shawl up around my ears, who was going to pick out the somebody I’d been in the art world, even if it was a fairly prestigious somebody? A claim justified by the idea, however wishful, that a delicate prose style may signify honesty; that style and character are indivisible.
I was going to confine myself to that Imperial Room – so called on the bronze panel over the walnut door – and give free rein to the inner hackette we all bear inside. The only way for me to turn the page, to start afresh, was to write down what I knew. My model being the eighteenth-century practice among the English, as described in Defoe’s Moll Flanders, of allowing the condemned to recount their crimes before being hauled off to the gallows.
Any person reading this ought not to expect names, numbers or dates. The stuff of my tale has slipped through my fingers, all that remains now is a little of the atmosphere; my techniques are those of the impressionist, and not even the neo-kind. O