Research Article
A Road Layout Based Broadcast Mechanism for
Urban Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks
Yoonyoung Sung
and Meejeong Lee
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University, Daehyun-dong 11-1, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Correspondence should be addressed to Meejeong Lee; lmj@ewha.ac.kr
Received 18 September 2017; Accepted 2 January 2018; Published 30 January 2018
Academic Editor: Hongwei Wang
Copyright © 2018 Yoonyoung Sung and Meejeong Lee. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons
Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is
properly cited.
Safety services of Vehicular Ad Hoc Network (VANET) require reliable broadcasts. We propose a reliable broadcast mechanism for
urban roads called VANET Broadcasting for Urban areas based on Road Layout (VBURL), which tries to minimize the dependency
on information that may become inaccurate to maximize the efficiency of broadcast. Specifically, the proposed mechanism takes
into account the road layout information accessible from the digital map and only the real-time information obtained from the
broadcast messages or beacons. VBURL basically makes the vehicle that is farthest from the current forwarding vehicle take the
role of next forwarding vehicle and, if possible, makes an additional broadcast happen at the intersections where the effect of signal
attenuation caused by the road side obstacles is low in order to have prompt and reliable dissemination of safety messages towards
all roads connected to the intersections. The simulation results verified that VBURL achieves the same high performance as that
of the compared legacy schemes in terms of reliability with much higher efficiency. Even though the message reception delay of
VBURL is slightly longer than those of compared schemes, it is far less significant to impair the original purpose of safety message.
1. Introduction
The Vehicular Ad Hoc Network (VANET) consists of vehicles
that use mobile communications and enables communication
between vehicles or between vehicles and fixed infrastructure
along the road. The road condition and traffic information
collected through various sensors installed in vehicles and on
road side units are transmitted in real time through VANET.
The IEEE 802.11p standard and the IEEE 1609 working
group defined technologies for Wireless Access in Vehicular
Environments (WAVE) [1, 2]. In particular, 802.11p defines
the MAC and PHY layers, and 1609.4 defines multichannel
operation. For multichannel operation, it is specified to use
the control channel (CCH) for safety services, as well as
system control such as beacons, and the service channels
(SCHs) for general commercial services. The Synchronization
Interval (SI) of 100 ms is divided into an equal length of a
CCH interval and an SCH interval.
VANET enables the provision of services to improve
passenger safety and traffic flow through the pro