46
Design of a system with a higher safety integrity level out 
of components with an insufficient safety integrity level
Scha..be Hendrik, TÜV Rheinland InterTraffic, Cologne, Germany
Abstract. Aim. Technical systems are becoming more and more complex. An increasing 
number of technical systems contains electronic equipment and software, thus their functional 
safety is of utmost importance. The safety integrity level is defined by a discrete number that 
characterizes the set of measures against random and systematic failures depending on the 
specified risk reduction requirements. The concept of safety integrity levels (SIL) was devel-
oped as part of various systems of standards. While the safety architecture of a system is con-
sidered, the main question arises: how systems with higher SIL are made out of components 
and subsystems with low SIL. The answer to that question will allow using existing and certified 
components in the development of systems with specified safety integrity levels, probably with 
higher SIL than the SIL of the components. Methods. The paper analyzes and compares the 
existing rules of system combination with safety integrity levels set forth in various functional 
safety standards, e.g. EN 50126/8/9, ISO 26262, IEC 61508, DEF-STAN-00-56, SIRF and the 
Yellow Book. Beside the tolerable failure rates, the system design requirements must make 
provisions for combining low SIL subsystems to make higher SIL systems. The widest set of 
methods is defined for SIL 4 compliance. However, this set of methods cannot be reworked 
for all possible systems into a simple rule for the combination of systems with lower SIL into 
systems with higher SIL. In general, the combination of systems into a serial structure will make 
a system with the safety integrity level equivalent to the lowest subsystem safety integrity level. 
Tentatively, we can assume that by combining two subsystems with the same safety integrity 
level we can create a system with a safety integrity level one step higher. Results. It is shown 
that the general SIL allocation rule established in the DEF-STAN-00-56, the Yellow Book or 
the SIRF standards cannot be recommended for all countries and any situations. Failure rate 
and/or observation intervals must be taken into consideration. Its is proven that general rules 
can only be given for subsystems connected in parallel and some SIL combinations (see e.g. 
the Yellow Book, SIRF). In each case common failures must be taken into consideration. The 
general rule may be as follows: in order to achieve system SIL one level higher than the initial 
level, two component subsystems with the SIL one level lower must be connected in parallel. 
Other system architectures must be thoroughly studied.
Keywords: safety integrity level, combination of subsystems, allowable failure rate.
For citation: Schäbe H. Design of a system with a higher safety integrity level out of com-
ponents with an insufficient safety integrity le