Research Article
Adaptive Equalizer Design for Unmanned Aircraft Vehicle
Image Transmission over Relay Channels
Huang Wenqian
and Ding Wenrui
School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, China
Correspondence should be addressed to Huang Wenqian; huangwenqian@buaa.edu.cn
Received 8 December 2017; Revised 23 February 2018; Accepted 5 March 2018; Published 11 April 2018
Academic Editor: Hongwei Wang
Copyright © 2018 Huang Wenqian and Ding Wenrui. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons
Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is
properly cited.
A novel length adaptive method is proposed for time domain equalizer by taking the channel attenuation ratio between different
multipath components into account in UAV-UAV and UAV-ground channels. Then, considering received image quality, the
minimum bit error ratio (MBER) criterion is exploited to design adaptive equalizers for both amplify-and-forward (AF) and
decode-and-forward (DF) relaying systems by the proposed length adaptive method. Results show that proposed MBER adaptive
equalizers outperform the traditional ones in both AF relaying and DF relaying as channel attenuation ratio in UAV-ground channel
increases. Moreover, DF outperforms AF as channel attenuation ratio in UAV-UAV channel increases. Furthermore, bit error ratio
(BER) and peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) performances in both AF and DF are evaluated to show the enhancement by the
proposed MBER adaptive equalizers.
1. Introduction
With the explosive growth of using unmanned aircraft vehi-
cle (UAV) for various applications, there is a tremendous
demand for image wireless transmission in UAV remote
sensing system [1, 2]. The performance of traditional direct
UAV-to-ground communication is severely degraded by the
fading of the wireless channel and can be easily shadowed
by buildings in urban areas or by mountains in rural areas,
leading to drop in the quality of the received images. Thus it
is imperative to develop the future communication schemes
to mitigate the impact caused by the fading and shadowing.
Relaying as an approach to increase the reliability and
extend the coverage area of the UAV remote sensing system,
as depicted in Figure 1, has attracted a huge interest [3–5].
In [3], UAVs are deployed as flying relays between aerial and
ground mesh networks in an emergency scenario. Reference
[5] investigated how to deploy UAVs as flying relays to
increase coverage in the wireless network. Generally, there
are mainly two widely used relaying schemes: amplify-and-
forward (AF) and decode-and-forward (DF). In AF, the relay
amplifies and retransmits the received signal from the source
to the destination. In DF, the relay decodes the signal and then
forwards it to the destination.
According to recent measurement campaign and litera-
tures [6–8], UAV-to-ground and UAV-to-UAV channels, two
kinds 