Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering 7 (2019) 145-156 
doi: 10.17265/2328-2142/2019.04.001 
Interlocking System for CBTC (Communication Based 
Train Control) System 
Tetsuya Takata1, Akira Asano1 and Hideo Nakamura2 
1. Kyosan Electric Mfg. Co., Ltd, Yokohama 230-0031, Japan 
2. Graduate School of Frontier Science, The University of Tokyo, Chiba 277-8561, Japan 
 
Abstract: In recent years, the environment of railways and the systems such as CBTC (communication based train control) have been 
changing. To respond the changes and the needs of customers, a UTCS (unified train control system) has been developed to realize a 
system that evolves with customers. Previous type systems consist of independent components such as ATC (Automatic train control) 
system, electronic interlocking system, and facility monitoring system, and there are a complicated overlap of system configurations 
and functions and difference in concept between the systems. On the other hand, the integrated train control system consists of 
horizontal layers such as function layer, network layer, and terminal layer. Therefore, the system has been developed to make it simple 
with no unnecessary redundancy and evolving to meet the needs of customers. In this paper, we explain a method that realizes the 
interlocking function for CBTC system in the function layer based on the concept of “securing a train travelling path” including path 
blocking and routing, and evaluate the safety of the method using STAMP/STPA. 
 
Key words: Railway signaling, interlocking system, safety assessment, train control system, CBTC, UTCS, FMEA (fault tree analysis), 
STAMP/STPA. 
 
1. Introduction 
Interlocking system is a train control system that 
realizes collaborative control of branching direction or 
permission for trains to travel, in order to prevent 
collision or derailment of trains. 
As a result of individual development of block 
system, ATC system, interlocking system, and facility 
monitoring system, the train control system consists of 
vertically-divided independent components. Integrated 
train control system is developed by reorganizing the 
train control system to have horizontally-divided layers 
including function layer, network layer, and terminal 
layer [1, 2]. The reorganization of the system 
incorporates the control logic into the function layer 
and therefore the interface between the systems is 
rational. 
Integrated train control system is developed by 
reorganizing the train control system to have 
                                                          
Corresponding author: Tetsuya Takata, B. Engineering, 
research field: railway signaling. 
 
horizontally-divided 
layers 
in 
“hierarchical 
configuration” including function layer, network layer, 
and terminal layer. This reorganization of the system 
not only integrates the functions and reduces on-site 
facilities, improving the system reliability, but also 
incorporates all the control logics into the