Research Article
Wideband Channel Modeling for mm-Wave inside Trains for
5G-Related Applications
Juan Moreno García-Loygorri
,1 César Briso-Rodríguez
,1
Israel Arnedo
,2 César Calvo
,1 Miguel A. G. Laso
,2 Danping He,3
Florentino Jiménez,1 and Vicente González Posadas1
1TSC Department, ETSIST, Universidad Polit´ecnica de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
2Universidad P´ublica de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain
3Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China
Correspondence should be addressed to Juan Moreno Garc´ıa-Loygorri; juanmorenogl@diac.upm.es
Received 2 November 2017; Accepted 14 February 2018; Published 15 April 2018
Academic Editor: Dajana Cassioli
Copyright © 2018 Juan Moreno Garc´ıa-Loygorri et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons
Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is
properly cited.
Passenger trains and especially metro trains have been identified as one of the key scenarios for 5G deployments. The wireless
channel inside a train car is reported in the frequency range between 26.5 GHz and 40 GHz. These bands have received a lot of
interest for high-density scenarios with a high-traffic demand, two of the most relevant aspects of a 5G network. In this paper we
provide a full description of the wideband channel estimating Power-Delay Profiles (PDP), Saleh-Valenzuela model parameters,
time-of-arrival (TOA) ranging, and path-loss results. Moreover, the performance of an automatic clustering algorithm is evaluated.
The results show a remarkable degree of coherence and general conclusions are obtained.
1. Introduction
Metro lines are one of the most acknowledged high-density
scenarios, as well as stadiums and other large venues. These
places are a clear target for 5G mobile [1] deployments,
which is intended to provide very large throughputs and
ultra-low latencies in dense environments and sustain a
high number of simultaneous connections, among others.
It is noteworthy that it is possible to have more than 1200
people inside a 120-meter long train, which means around
5 persons/m2. There are many railway-related applications
like Train-to-Ground, Train-to-Train, Train-to-Car, Train-to-
Satellite, intratrain communications, and so on, which are
usually grouped under the T2X notation, or perhaps in the
more generic V2X notation, where “V” stands for vehicular.
In this paper we focus on the intratrain channel, which has an
enormous importance to provide connectivity to passengers.
Also, this wireless channel could be used for the internal
communications of the train, which is one of the objectives
of the EU-H2020 Roll2Rail Project [2].
There is still some vagueness in the frequency bands
to be assigned, but some things are clear: there will be 5G
deployments both above and below 6 GHz [3]. This fact
has attracted much attention on millimeter waves (mm-
wave) in order to have larger bandwidths than in lower
frequencies, where the entire spe