 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General rights 
Copyright and moral rights for the publications made accessible in the public portal are retained by the authors and/or other copyright owners 
and it is a condition of accessing publications that users recognise and abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights. 
 
• Users may download and print one copy of any publication from the public portal for the purpose of private study or research. 
• You may not further distribute the material or use it for any profit-making activity or commercial gain 
• You may freely distribute the URL identifying the publication in the public portal  
 
If you believe that this document breaches copyright please contact us providing details, and we will remove access to the work immediately 
and investigate your claim. 
   
 
Downloaded from orbit.dtu.dk on: Dec 18, 2017
Radio communication for Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC): A tutorial and
survey
Farooq, Jahanzeb; Soler, José
Published in:
IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials
Link to article, DOI:
10.1109/COMST.2017.2661384
Publication date:
2017
Document Version
Peer reviewed version
Link back to DTU Orbit
Citation (APA):
Farooq, J., & Soler, J. (2017). Radio communication for Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC): A tutorial
and survey. IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials, 19(3), 1377-1402. DOI:
10.1109/COMST.2017.2661384
1
Radio communication for Communications-Based
Train Control (CBTC): A tutorial and survey
Jahanzeb Farooq, Member, IEEE, and José Soler, Member, IEEE
Abstract—Over the last decade, railway industry has seen
a huge transition from conventional railway signalling sys-
tems
to
modern,
communication-based
signalling
systems.
Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC) is a modern
communication-based system that uses radio communication to
transfer timely and accurate train control information. CBTC
is the choice of mass-transit railway operators today, with over
a hundred systems currently installed worldwide. The safety-
related, time-critical applications such as train control impose
stringent reliability and availability requirements on the radio
communication technology used. IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi, despite
being originally developed for stationary users within a limited
area, has prevailed as the de-facto radio technology for CBTC.
Unfortunately, very limited literature is publicly available on this
topic due to the highly competitive nature of the railway industry.
We believe that this paper ﬁlls the much-needed gap. It aims to
present a comprehensive tutorial, as well as a survey of the state-
of-the-art, of CBTC and the role of radio communication in it.
The operation and fundamental components of a CBTC system
are discussed. A summary of the evolution of the communication
technologies used for modern railway signalling is presented.
The beneﬁts and drawbacks of using a radio communication
technology, particularly Wi-Fi, and the challenges it in