Citation: He, Y.; Lv, J.; Tang, T.
Communication-Based Train Control
with Dynamic Headway Based on
Trajectory Prediction. Actuators 2022,
11, 237. https://doi.org/10.3390/
act11080237
Academic Editor: André Preumont
Received: 4 July 2022
Accepted: 15 August 2022
Published: 18 August 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright:
© 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
actuators
Article
Communication-Based Train Control with Dynamic Headway
Based on Trajectory Prediction
Yijuan He 1
, Jidong Lv 1,*
and Tao Tang 2
1
National Engineering Research Center of Rail Transportation Operation and Control System,
Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China
2
State Key Lab of Rail Trafﬁc Control & Safety, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China
*
Correspondence: jdlv@bjtu.edu.cn
Abstract: Rail transit plays a signiﬁcant role in the operation of an efﬁcient and effective urban
public transportation system. Safety and capacity are some of the most crucial objectives in railway
operations. The communication-based train control (CBTC) system is a continuous and automatic
train control system that realizes constant and high-capacity train ground two-way communication.
In this study, a dynamic headway model of the ‘softwall’ moving-block approach is proposed for
CBTC to increase the track capacity and improve dispatching efﬁciency based on the train trajectory
prediction. For this precise trajectory prediction task, we introduce a hybrid trajectory prediction
model to combine Long Short-term memory (LSTM) and Kalman Filter (KF) to extract the train’s
local data features and learn the long-term dependencies, respectively. Then we present a dynamic
headway model to maximize the train headway and reduce the track distance. The leading trains’
information is used to construct the iterative learning control strategy, and the predicted trajectory
is input into the algorithm of the headway model. We use a simulation model of the rail network
in Chengdu to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach. The results show the
Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of the predicted trajectory retreated to 93.97 cm and reductions in
operation headway of at least 64.33% under the dynamic headway model versus the traditional
moving-block model.
Keywords: LSTM-KF model; relative moving block; dynamic headway
1. Introduction
The urban railway has been developed in recent decades with outstanding achieve-
ments worldwide. However, the existing operating capacity has dramatically hindered
the transportation efﬁciency and development of urban rail transit. The limited operating
capacity has led to trafﬁc congestion, especially during the peak hours of the metropo-
lis. The increa