

Citation: Pencheva, E.; Atanasov, I.;
Trifonov, V. Towards Intelligent,
Programmable, and Open Railway
Networks. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 4062.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
app12084062
Academic Editors: Valerio De
Martinis and Raimond
Matthias Wüst
Received: 23 March 2022
Accepted: 15 April 2022
Published: 17 April 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright:
© 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
applied  
sciences
Article
Towards Intelligent, Programmable, and Open Railway Networks
Evelina Pencheva 1,*, Ivaylo Atanasov 2 and Ventsislav Trifonov 2
1
Telecommunications Department, Faculty of Telecommunications and Electrical Equipment in Transport,
“Todor Kableshkov” University of Transport, 1574 Soﬁa, Bulgaria
2
Communication Networks Department, Faculty of Telecommunications, Technical University of Soﬁa,
1756 Soﬁa, Bulgaria; iia@tu-soﬁa.bg (I.A.); vgt@tu-soﬁa.bg (V.T.)
*
Correspondence: evelina.nik.pencheva@gmail.com
Abstract: The virtualization and automation of network functions will be key features of future
high-speed railway networks, which have to provide dependable, safe, and secure services. The
virtualization of railway network functions will enable functions such as train control, train integrity
protection, shunting control, and trackside monitoring and maintenance to be virtualized and to be
run on general-purpose hardware. Network function virtualization combined with edge computing
can deliver dynamic, low-latency, and reliable services. The automation of railway operations
can be achieved by embedding intelligence into the network to optimize the railway operation
performance and to enhance the passenger experience. This paper presents an innovative railway
network architecture that features distributed intelligence, function cloudiﬁcation and virtualization,
openness, and programmability. The focus is on time-tolerant and time-sensitive intelligent services
designed to follow the principles of service-oriented architecture. The interaction between identiﬁed
logical identities is illustrated by use cases. The paper provides some details of the design of the
interface between distributed intelligent services and presents the results of an emulation of the
interface performance.
Keywords: European Train Control System; artiﬁcial intelligence; network function virtualization;
service-oriented architecture; concurrent process modeling; key performance indicators
1. Introduction
The digitalization and embedding of innovation technologies are expected to enhance
the capacity and optimize the performance of railway operations and to improve the quality
of experience for passengers [1]. At the same time, the environmental requirement