Citation: Petrovi´c, A.D.; Bani´c, M.;
Simonovi´c, M.; Stamenkovi´c, D.;
Miltenovi´c, A.; Adamovi´c, G.;
Rangelov, D. Integration of Computer
Vision and Convolutional Neural
Networks in the System for Detection
of Rail Track and Signals on the
Railway. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6045.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
app12126045
Academic Editor: Amerigo Capria
Received: 1 May 2022
Accepted: 10 June 2022
Published: 14 June 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright:
© 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
applied  
sciences
Article
Integration of Computer Vision and Convolutional Neural
Networks in the System for Detection of Rail Track and Signals
on the Railway
Aleksandar Dragan Petrovi´c 1,*
, Milan Bani´c 1
, Miloš Simonovi´c 1
, Dušan Stamenkovi´c 1,
Aleksandar Miltenovi´c 1
, Gavrilo Adamovi´c 2 and Damjan Rangelov 1
1
Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, University of Niš, 18000 Nis, Serbia; milan.banic@masfak.ni.ac.rs (M.B.);
milos.simonovic@masfak.ni.ac.rs (M.S.); dusan.stamenkovic@masfak.ni.ac.rs (D.S.);
aleksandar.miltenovic@masfak.ni.ac.rs (A.M.); damjan.rangelov@masfak.ni.ac.rs (D.R.)
2
Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of Niš, 18000 Nis, Serbia;
gavrilo.adamovic@pmf.edu.rs
*
Correspondence: aleksandar.petrovic@masfak.ni.ac.rs; Tel.: +381-(0)-63205202
Abstract: One of the most challenging technical implementations of today is self-driving vehicles. An
important segment of self-driving is the ability of the computer to “see/detect” objects of interest at a
distance which enables safe vehicle operation. An algorithm for the detection of railway infrastructure
objects, namely, track and signals, is proposed in this paper to enable detection of signals which
are relevant for the track the train is moving along. The algorithm integrates traditional computer
vision (CV) algorithms, including Canny edge detection, Hough transform, and You Only Look Once
(YOLO) algorithm, based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Each of the concepts (CV and
CNNs) deals with a different object of detection which together form a unique system that aims to
detect both the rails and the relevant signals. This approach ensures that the artiﬁcial intelligence (AI)
system is “aware” of which route the signal belongs to. The reliability of the proposed algorithm in
detection of a relevant signal, veriﬁed by the performed tests, is up to 99.7%. The metric method used
for validation was intersection over union (IoU). The obtained value of IoU applied on the entire
validation dataset exceeds 0.7. Calculated values of average precision and recall were 0.89 and 0.76,
respectively. The algorithm created in this way solves the problem of detectio