Article
The Function Design for the Communication-Based Train
Control (CBTC) System: How to Solve the Problems in the
Underground Mine Rail Transportation?
Haoxuan Yu 1,2
and Shuai Li 1,*


Citation: Yu, H.; Li, S. The Function
Design for the Communication-Based
Train Control (CBTC) System: How to
Solve the Problems in the Underground
Mine Rail Transportation? Appl. Syst.
Innov. 2021, 4, 31. https://doi.org/
10.3390/asi4020031
Received: 14 April 2021
Accepted: 26 April 2021
Published: 27 April 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
1
School of Resources and Safety Engineering, Central South University, Changsha 410083, China;
yuhaoxuan@csu.edu.cn
2
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), New York, NY 10001, USA
*
Correspondence: shuaige@csu.edu.cn
Abstract: With the continuous development of the mining industry, the world’s major mines have
gradually entered the intelligent stage. In intelligent underground mines, the operation roads of the
underground transportation equipment are very complicated, and the monitoring and control of the
underground trafﬁc have become the problems to be solved in the intelligent underground mines.
Therefore, on the basis of solving the practical problems of underground mines, the concept paper
discusses the possibility of the communication-based train control (CBTC) system being applied
to underground mines through the summary and induction of the related literature. As mining
engineers, we have proposed the function design for the CBTC system to solve the problems in
underground mine rail transportation, but we still need to continue to work hard for the future
development of the underground mines. The concept paper serves as a guide to the Tossing out a
brick to get a jade gem, and it has implications for the development and the future of underground
mine transportation.
Keywords: underground mines; rail transportation; underground transportation; monitoring and
control system; mining industry
1. Introduction: The Development of the Mining Industry and the CBTC System
With the rapid development of mining science and technology, the underground
mines all over the world are gradually stepping into the intelligent stage.
Although the intelligentization is the ultimate goal of mine development, underground
mine faces many challenges in the process of developing toward the intelligentization,
especially underground transportation. Frankly speaking, in the past 20 years, many
researchers have devoted themselves to the research of intelligent underground mines,
including the research of intelligent underground mine transportation [1].
In the year 20