
















Advance Reader’s Copy — Not for Sale
BLINDSPOT: HIDDEN BIASES OF GOOD PEOPLE
Mahzarin R. Banaji and Anthony G. Greenwald
Delacorte Press
This is an uncorrected eBook file.
Please do not quote for publication until you check your copy against the finished book.
Tentative On-Sale Date: February 12, 2013
Tentative Publication Month: February 2013
Tentative Print Price: $27.00
Tentative eBook Price: $13.99
Please note that books will not be available in stores until the above on-sale date.
All reviews should be scheduled to run after that date.
Publicity Contact:
bdpublicity@randomhouse.com
(212) 782-8678
www.bantamdell.com
Delacorte Press
An imprint of the Random House Publishing Group
1745 Broadway • New York, NY • 10019





















This is an uncorrected eBook file. Please do not quote for publication until you check your copy against the finished book.
Copyright © 2013 by Mahzarin R. Banaji and Anthony G. Greenwald
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Delacorte Press, an imprint of The Random House Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc., New York.
DELACORTE PRESS is a registered trademark of Random House, Inc., and the colophon is a trademark of Random House, Inc.
[Permissions acknowledgments to come.]
ISBN: 978-0-553-80464-5
eBook ISBN: 978-0-440-42329-4
www​.bantamdell​.com
Book design by Susan Turner










For
Bhaskar and Jean
Revealers of blindspots











The sailor cannot see the North
—but knows the Needle can—
EMILY DICKINSON, in a letterto a mentor, T. W. Higginson, seeking anhonest evaluation of her talent (1862)











Contents
Cover
eBook Information
Title Page
Copyright Page
Dedication
Epigraph
Preface
1 Mindbugs
2 Shades of Truth
3 Into the Blindspot
4 “Not That There’s Anything Wrong with That!”
5 Homo Categoricus
6 The Stealth of Stereotypes
7 Us and Them
8 Outsmarting the Machine
Appendix 1 Are Americans Racist?
Appendix 2 Race, Disadvantage, and Discrimination
Acknowledgments
Notes
References
About the Authors





















Preface
Like all vertebrates, you have a blind spot in each eye. This is a small region where the optic nerve attaches to the retina. Because there are no light-sensitive cells in this region, light reaching your blind spot (scotoma) has no path to visual areas of your brain.
Nevertheless, you can “see” your own blind spot by looking at the plus sign in the middle of the rectangle below with just one eye open. (You may need to take your glasses off.) Starting with the page about a foot in front of your nose, bring it closer while focusing on the plus sign. One of the black discs (the one on the same side as your open eye) will disappear at some point when the page is about six inches away, and will reappear as you bring the page closer still. The moment of disappearance tells you when light from that disc is falling on your open eye’s blind spot. Here’s a bonus: If you shift your open eye to look at the still-visible disc on the other 