http://freepdf-books.com
Foreword By Whitfield Diffie 
The literature of cryptography has a curious history. Secrecy, of course, has always played a central 
role, but until the First World War, important developments appeared in print in a more or less 
timely fashion and the field moved forward in much the same way as other specialized disciplines. 
As late as 1918, one of the most influential cryptanalytic papers of the twentieth century, William F. 
Friedman’s monograph The Index of Coincidence and Its Applications in Cryptography, appeared as 
a research report of the private Riverbank Laboratories [577]. And this, despite the fact that the work 
had been done as part of the war effort. In the same year Edward H. Hebern of Oakland, California 
filed the first patent for a rotor machine [710], the device destined to be a mainstay of military 
cryptography for nearly 50 years. 
After the First World War, however, things began to change. U.S. Army and Navy organizations, 
working entirely in secret, began to make fundamental advances in cryptography. During the thirties 
and forties a few basic papers did appear in the open literature and several treatises on the subject 
were published, but the latter were farther and farther behind the state of the art. By the end of the 
war the transition was complete. With one notable exception, the public literature had died. That 
exception was Claude Shannon’s paper “The Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems,” which 
appeared in the Bell System Technical Journal in 1949 [1432]. It was similar to Friedman’s 1918 
paper, in that it grew out of wartime work of Shannon’s. After the Second World War ended it was 
declassified, possibly by mistake. 
From 1949 until 1967 the cryptographic literature was barren. In that year a different sort of 
contribution appeared: David Kahn’s history, The Codebreakers [794]. It didn’t contain any new 
technical ideas, but it did contain a remarkably complete history of what had gone before, including 
mention of some things that the government still considered secret. The significance of The 
Codebreakers lay not just in its remarkable scope, but also in the fact that it enjoyed good sales and 
made tens of thousands of people, who had never given the matter a moment’s thought, aware of 
cryptography. A trickle of new cryptographic papers began to be written. 
At about the same time, Horst Feistel, who had earlier worked on identification friend or foe devices 
for the Air Force, took his lifelong passion for cryptography to the IBM Watson Laboratory in 
Yorktown Heights, New York. There, he began development of what was to become the U.S. Data 
Encryption Standard; by the early 1970s several technical reports on this subject by Feistel and his 
colleagues had been made public by IBM [1482,1484,552]. 
This was the situation when I entered the field in late 1972. The cryptographic literature wasn’t 
abundant, but what there was included some very shiny nuggets. 
Cryptolog