Caravel Group - 
for projects  
that allow no 
room for error
T h e  s p e c i a l i s t  f o r  l a r g e  c o m p l e x  m u l t i - d i s c i p l i n e d  p r o j e c t s
Safety Critical Projects
LEADING THE WAY IN PROJECTS
Systems are generally expected to be dependable and solid; none more so, than those that 
underpin safety critical infrastructure. They are often vital for the common good, however their 
failure can have catastrophic consequences.
In order to perform safety critical control functions, these systems usually rely on a technology 
solution as well as a human element. As such, they also carry within themselves the potential 
for failure, through technology as well as through human error. Failure of one or both of these 
aspects can lead to incidents and accidents, often threatening life and property on a mass scale. 
Any system development or organisational change that is implemented within such an environment 
is considered a Safety Critical Project - one of the most challenging types of project that an 
organisation may face or undertake.
Safety Critical Projects are usually found in infrastructure-related 
industries such as:
• 
Transport (maritime, rail, road, aviation)
• 
Utilities (electricity, water & waste, gas, telecommunications)
• 
Process industries (particularly petrochemical)
• 
Mining industry
• 
Emergency services (control rooms etc.)
The risks are many and various and may lie with the owners of the 
system or equipment, and impact those that pay to use the services 
delivered by the system or equipment, or those that operate the 
system or equipment.
When Failure is
Not an Option
2
Safe systems 
Quality systems are often synonymous with minimal re-work. In the same vein, a safe system 
is also considered to be the most efficient and effective. This is borne out by engineers’ efforts 
to minimise any downtime of equipment and staff (due to illness or injury) while increasing the 
availability of services to customers.
Safety Critical Projects are usually executed in a distinctly multi-faceted environment and have 
to address a number of factors. For project managers it means that they deal with complex 
projects that are further complicated by onerous compliance requirements and conditions.
As a result, Safety Critical Projects share a mix of the following attributes:
• 
Industrial electronics development, modification or off-the-shelf supply
• 
Software development or modification including embedded systems
• 
Systems integration and implementation 
• 
Business process innovation to accommodate the new technology
• 
Change implementation to manage the transition from old to new
• 
Support systems implementation or modification to accommodate the new systems
• 
Risk management programme including on-going or in-service risk performance monitoring
3
