Classiﬁcation of railway level crossing barrier and
light signalling system using YOLOv3
Pavel Sikora∗, Martin Kiac∗, Malay Kishore Dutta†
∗Department of Telecommunications, Brno University of Technology, Brno, Czech Republic
†Centre for Advanced Studies, Dr. A.P.J.Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow, India.
Email: xsikor14@stud.feec.vutbr.cz, xkiacm00@stud.feec.vutbr.cz
Abstract—Nowadays, the world is experiencing an increasing
boom in deep learning. This is more and more used in many
areas such as medicine, robotics, industry, security systems, etc.
This article deals with the detection and classiﬁcation of railway
barriers at level crossings, railway warnings, and light signaling
systems. The evaluation system uses cameras, which are suitably
positioned to capture the entire scene at a given railway level
crossing. The detection itself is done using image processing
techniques and deep neural networks. The proposed system uses
the GPU acceleration to achieve real-time capability.
Keywords—object detection; railway level crossing barrier;
train; trafﬁc light; yolo
I. INTRODUCTION
In the last few years, the world has been experiencing
an increasing boom in deep learning. It is widespread in
many industries, for example in medicine, autonomous driving,
converting speech to text, security systems and also in other
areas.
Thanks to increasing computing power, deep learning be-
comes more and more accessible in everyday life. Many
devices have already implemented deep learning algorithms
without the users of these devices knowing about it. Deep
learning is a very complex technique that can replace classic
algorithms.
In the Czech Republic railway level crossings may include
a warning board or a combination of a warning board and a
physical avoidance in the form of barriers preventing the entry
of any road user to the railway level crossing. However, this
solution is not able to identify entrance of careless road users
or persons on the railway level crossing. This will endanger
both persons and road users on the railway level crossing and
train passengers as well.
This situation can be evaluated by a device in the form of
a camera system located at the railway level crossing. With
a camera, the system can evaluate the entire situation which
is taking place in the ﬁeld of view of the camera, i.e. on the
entire railway level crossing. If an unusual situation occurs,
the camera system is able to evaluate the threat and trigger
the alarm.
Numerous scientiﬁc articles deal with the detection of peo-
ple and vehicles of various types. Similarly, many researchers
This work was supported by the Czech Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MPO) under Grant FV40372.
already dealt with the problems of detection and classiﬁcation
of light signaling systems [1], [2]. We focused on the detection
and classiﬁcation of railway level crossing barriers together
with the detection and evaluation of the light signaling systems
and warning boards.
This article focuses on d