

























Dedication
For Sweet Lady Val








Epigraph
My mom always wanted me
to be a youth pastor.
When I became a comedian,
she said, “Close enough.”








Contents
Cover
Title Page
Disclaimer
Dedication
Epigraph
indoor cat
church
the technical virgin
farting through silk
shameful masturbator
treasure in heaven
sweaty toothed madman
open dorm
cry innocent!
married
sleepy hollow
tinker bell
weedsmoke
kicked in the nuts
the hooraytheist
atheist crackers
“nothing”
makeover
second virginity
missing god
mushrooms
los angeles
making it weird
joey cambs
myth about you
consies o’breezies
duncan trussell and the harbor of sorrows
sweet lady val
crashing
rammy d
yes, thank you
retreat
i cast all my cares
missing the guy, again
hot air balloon
a deep, unflinching malaise
falling slowly
retreating further
gateway god
luminous emptiness
Acknowledgments
Further Reading
About the Author
Copyright
About the Publisher








indoor cat
THERE ARE TWO GREAT MYSTERIES IN THIS LIFE.
The first is what we’re all doing here. You. Me. Everyone. Each of us woke up into something none of us asked for, conscious and alive, aware of our shared predicament as we hurl through infinite space that’s expanding even as you read this, molecules stuck in the shape of humans eating other molecules stuck in the shape of noodles walking around other molecules stuck in the shape of a shopping mall. What the fuck? The root cause of existence, despite our best efforts, remains an enormous, itchy, unresolved conundrum.
The second great mystery of this life is how my parents, Jay and Irena, found each other, got married, and stayed together.
The story goes, they met in a bar in Cape Cod, and after dating for a few months in their late thirties, my mom told my dad to “shit or get off the pot.” My dad chose “shit,” and three years later I was born.
My father is a gregarious ham. Tall and loud, he’s an instant best friend and one man show to waiters, bartenders, cabdrivers, and elevator operators. He’s a great kisser of babies, a bringer of cakes, and he never, ever misses a funeral, no matter how distant the acquaintance. When my family went out to dinner, my father would loudly refuse to drink water “because fish make love in it.” He calls ketchup “Irish gravy,” busboys “amigo,” and has never, ever, had Chinese food without pretending that his fortune cookie says, “Help, Chinese cook locked in kitchen.”
As a kid, it was weird watching my father’s charms work on literally every single person in the world except my mother.
My mom experienced more than her fair share of stress as a child in Lithuania, having lost her brother to World War II, then living in a refugee camp for three years before immigrating to the famously-racist-even-to-other-kinds-of-white-people South Boston—where her father, who also happened to be her best friend, told her, “No one in our family likes us, but at least we have each other”—then promptly died in a mental institution, leaving her to fend 