














Cookie BaitA Sweet Romantic ComedyAshley Funk







Copyright © 2022 Ashley FunkAll rights reserved.Cover design by Jayden WeeksThis is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, events, and incidents are the products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events is purely coincidental.No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.www.ashleyfunk.com







For Louise Inderrieden,Who planted the seed all those years agoAnd for Tessa,Drink your water, you little goblin







Chapter OneHARPER Tessa sighs dramatically and throws her phone onto my couch. “It’s official. Dating apps are a bust.”I turn from stirring the spaghetti sauce on the stove as my best friend shuts the front door of my small apartment behind her. Spaghetti: the quintessential poor-college-kid food. Not that I am a poor college kid anymore–I am a poor college graduate. But old habits die hard.“Hi Tessa! How nice to see you. Would you like to come in? Make yourself at home, why don’t you?”Tessa hangs her purse on the hook she installed by my door and slips her shoes off, leaving them side by side. I have no need of the hook, no matter how many times Tessa tells me how fast it is for her to get out of her own house because she keeps everything by the door. My shoes and purse remain scattered around my miniscule living room despite her attempts to help me become more organized.She flops onto her stomach on the old couch I bought off Craigslist right after I graduated from Utah State University and had to move out of the dorms. I haven’t had the time or brainpower in the last four years to replace it with something a little less…saggy.“How did you manage to deal with dates off of that app for six months?” Tessa interlaces her fingers and rests her chin on the armrest.My apartment is tiny, putting Tessa’s face on the arm of the couch approximately five steps from where I’m standing in the kitchen. It was the only thing I could afford right out of college with no experience and an entry-level position, but it’s grown on me in the last few years. I genuinely like living on my own, except for not having anyone to blame for the messy living room, clogged shower drains, or molding leftovers.Not that I’m completely alone. Tessa tends to show up whenever she feels like it and acts like she lives here. Which I’m sure she’d love to do, seeing as she still lives with her parents, but I don’t have the room and Tessa’s told me it’s nice not paying rent, considering how much she has to pay for tuition for the master’s degree she’s working on. While I am firmly in the “I’m done with college” category, Tessa decided to go back to school a year ago to get her MBA when Insight dangled a promotion to Marketi