






Crush It!


Why NOW Is the Time to Cash In on Your Passion


Gary Vaynerchuk


















Contents







Acknowledgments





1 Passion Is Everything


2 Success Is in Your DNA


3 Build Your Personal Brand


4 A Whole New World


5 Create Great Content


6 Choose Your Platform


7 Keep It Real…Very Real


8 Create Community: Digging Your Internet Trench


9 The Best Marketing Strategy Ever


10 Make the World Listen


11 Start Monetizing


12 Roll with It


13 Legacy Is Greater Than Currency


Conclusion: The Time Is Now, the Message Is Forever


Appendix A: Did You Forget Anything?


Appendix B: Five Business Ideas I Won’t Get to—They’re Yours





About the Author








Other Books by Gary Vaynerchuk








Credits








Copyright








About the Publisher




















acknowledgments




This book couldn’t have happened without so many people. First and foremost is the wonderful family that surrounds me: My amazing and world-class wife, Lizzie, is my partner in crime and the person whose support allows me to accomplish so much; my parents, Tamara and Sasha, are my whole life and without them I wouldn’t be half the man I am; my siblings, Liz and AJ, are my dearest friends and I adored every second growing up with them. And my new and most amazing love, my newborn, Misha—she has shown me a love I never knew was out there!
After my family there is an amazing team of people who have helped me to do this: Brandon Warnke, my best friend, gave me the freedom to do so much by holding down the Wine Library fort; Bobby Shifrin, my cousin, is more of an older brother and one of my closest friends; Matt Sitomer, my assistant, is a friend and person who really helps me more than anyone on a day-to-day basis and for that I am so grateful—I am truly lucky to have him on my team. Erik Kastner and John Kassimatis showed me the door of the Internet and had a huge impact on my views and I adore them like family.

Finally, the book you are about to read had no prayer of getting in front of you without the amazing team at HarperStudio. The fantastic Debbie Stier saw me speak at a conference and said to herself that she was going to publish me; she was right and her friendship and push and hustle during this process have made this book hers as much as it is mine. Bob Miller’s vision supported this project from the very beginning when I first dropped by to hang out in his office. The second I sat down in Austin, Texas, with the fantastic Stephanie Land, I knew she was going to help me write this book. I could see it in her face. I knew my charm and charisma were not going to be enough to win her over, but after she saw I had the chops, she jumped onboard. A super-special thanks to the ladies at The Brooks Group, Caroline, Niki, Erica, and of course Rebecca; you guys are the best and I thank you for your 24/7 efforts. To Peter Klein, not only are you a wonderful father-in-law, but your insights were very helpful. And finally, this would no