 
1 
 
Business Aligned IT Strategy | 
System Operator 
 
Data Architecture Reference 
Model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V1.0 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
Executive Summary 
System Operator exists to plan changes to the GB railway ‘system’ to balance the needs 
of passengers and freight customers and support economic growth. Its vision is to 
become the recognised expert; trusted by decision makers to plan the GB railway, and its 
primary output is the national timetable.  
 
It is not realistic to expect industry timetable planners to produce robust and resilient 
timetables in the timescales set out in the network code using the same manual 
techniques applied today e.g. manual data entry, visually reviewing train graphs, cross 
referencing against paper-based reference documents, manual validation of junctions 
using sectional appendix/unstructured TPR datasets/unstructured WON etc., manual stock 
and crew diagrams. 
 
It has been observed that the level of data maturity is low. There is not a common 
industry data platform, taxonomy or full industry data standard in place. Governed 
sharing of and access to data is too inconsistent to enable systemisation, and automation 
of activities associated with timetable production. Furthermore, there is no mandatory 
exchange format of the data between NR and TOC/FOCs to ensure it is aligned. 
 
There are many cultural, process and application issues that account for the current 
situation but at the root of all of these is the use and quality of the data that underpins 
all our activities. This data architecture reference model sets out our understanding of the 
current and future data needs, culminating in the Problem Statements and Target State 
sections which provide a series of options to consider and a forward view of change across 
CP6. The problem statements are extensive, but have been summarised under the 
following themes: 
 
The Culture of Data: A transformational change in how data is managed and governed 
requires a culture shift within the industry. Addressing quality issues on the core datasets 
that the industry use requires a clear vision, committed leadership and the right level of 
resourcing to succeed. 
 
Doing Things Differently: Throughout the timetable development process, there are 
opportunities to change to better support the sharing and exchange of information at a 
people and system level. Without changing the way we do things; improved data quality 
will only deliver some of the potential benefits. 
 
Embracing Data Ownership: Data ownership is currently very immature. Linked closely 
with the change in culture, a shift is needed to make people take data governance 
seriously. If our data is key to developing the timetable, then we must put as much effort 
into managing it through its full lifecycle as we do the timetable itself. 
 
Better Data, Better Timetable: Data quality issues exist throughout our data landscape. 
Much of this is managed through skilled teams manually correcting or interpreting