




CONTENTS

Cover
Dedication
Introduction
Chapter 1: Introduction to Markets and Trading

Functions of the Markets
Who’s Who in the Marketplace
Commonly Traded Products
More Commonly Traded Products
Trading Basics

Chapter 2: Creating a Trading Plan

A Good Day in the Markets
A Bad Day in the Markets
Writing A Business Plan
Making the Best use of Your Time

Chapter 3: The Cost of Trading

Working Alone
The Day Trader’s Tools: Trade Like a Pro
Brokerage Basics

Chapter 4: Getting Started in the Marketplace

Trading Stocks
Day Trading Foreign Exchange
Commodities
Futures
Starting to Trade
Advice on Trading Ideas
What to Trade Seasonally
Keeping Things in Perspective
The Benefits of Practice Accounts

Chapter 5: Handling Risk

Risk and Cash Accounts
Offensive and Defensive Risk
Controlling the Risk of Each Trade

Chapter 6: Trade Setups and Information

How does Margin Work?
Learn to Trade Opportunistically
Trading in an Overheated Market
Trading in the World Markets

Chapter 7: Analyzing the Market

Fundamental Analysis
Fundamentals of Commodities and Currencies
Technical Analysis
More Indicators

Chapter 8: Advanced Day Trading

Looking for Trades
Trading Entry Points
More Risk Management Techniques
Programming your Trades for Entry Points
Preset Profit Points
Emotions and Trading
Trade What’s Hot
Advanced Risk
Quick Trading
Trading Overnight or Longer
Diversification, Leverage, and Trading Risk
Leverage and Trading Risk

Chapter 9: Managing Your Accounts and Profits

Full Time or Part Time?
Realistically Looking at Profits
Building Your Account Slowly
Recording Gains and Losses
Trading Profits, Expenses, and Taxes
Extend Your Knowledge

Photographs
Acknowledgments
About the Author
Index
Copyright



Guide

Cover
Contents
Start of content
















Thank you for downloading this Simon & Schuster ebook.

Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions.


CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP


Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.








We hope you enjoyed reading this Simon & Schuster ebook.

Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions.


CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP


Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.















Adams Media
An Imprint of Simon & Schuster, Inc.
57 Littlefield Street
Avon, Massachusetts 02322
www.SimonandSchuster.com
Copyright © 2018 by Simon & Schuster, Inc.
All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoeve