 
EXTREME PRIVACY 
WHAT IT TAKES TO DISAPPEAR 
FOURTH EDITION 
MICHAEL BAZZELL
EXTREME PRIVACY: 
WHAT IT TAKES TO DISAPPEAR 
FOURTH EDITION 
Copyright © 2022 by Michael Bazzell 
Project Editors: Anonymous Editor #1, Anonymous Editor #2 
Cover Design: Anonymous Podcast Listener 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical 
means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the author. The 
content of this book cannot be distributed digitally, in any form, or offered as an electronic download, without 
permission in writing from the author. It 1s only officially offered as a printed hardcover book. 
Fourth Edition First Published: March 2022 
The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis, without warranty. The author has taken great 
care in preparation of this book, but assumes no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability is assumed 
for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or 
programs contained herein. 
Rather than use a trademark symbol with every occurrence of a trademarked name, this book uses the names 
only in an editorial fashion and to the benefit of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the 
trademark. 
Due to the use of quotation marks to identify specific text to be used as search queries and data entry, the author 
has chosen to display the British rule of punctuation outside of quotes. This ensures that the quoted content is 
accurate for replication. To maintain consistency, this format is continued throughout the entire book. 
The technology referenced in this book was edited and verified by a professional team for accuracy. Exact 
tutorials in reference to websites, software, and hardware configurations change rapidly. All tutorials in this book 
were confirmed accurate as of March 22, 2022. Readers may find slight discrepancies within the methods as 
technology changes. 
Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN): Application submitted 
ISBN: 9798431566363
