






















All identifying details, including names, have been changed except for those pertaining to the authors’ family members. This book is not intended as a substitute for advice from a trained professional.
Copyright © 2014 by Mind Your Brain, Inc., and Bryson Creative Productions, Inc.Excerpt from The Whole-Brain Child by Daniel J. Siegel, M.D., and Tina Payne Bryson, Ph.D., copyright © 2011 by Mind Your Brain, Inc., and Bryson Creative Productions, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Bantam Books, an imprint of Random House, a division of Random House LLC, a Penguin Random House Company, New York.
BANTAM BOOKS and the HOUSE colophon are registered trademarks of Random House LLC.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication DataSiegel, Daniel J.No-drama discipline : the whole-brain way to calm the chaos and nurture your child’s developing mind / Daniel J. Siegel, M.D., Tina Payne Bryson, Ph.D.pages cmISBN 978-0-345-54804-7 (hardback) — ISBN 978-0-345-54805-4 (ebook) 1. Parenting. 2. Child development. 3. Child rearing. I. Bryson, Tina Payne. II. Title.HQ755.8.S5327 2014649.1—dc232014008270
Illustrations by Tuesday Mourning
www.bantamdell.com
Title-page illustration: © iStock.com/Leontura
v3.1








To the youth of the world, our vital teachers (DJS)
 
For my parents: my first teachers and my first loves (TPB)








CONTENTS
Cover
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
 
Before You Read This Book: A Question
Introduction: Relational, Low-Drama Discipline
 
Chapter 1   ReTHINKING Discipline
Chapter 2   Your Brain on Discipline
Chapter 3   From Tantrum to Tranquility: Connection Is the Key
Chapter 4   No-Drama Connection in Action
Chapter 5   1-2-3 Discipline: Redirecting for Today, and for Tomorrow
Chapter 6   Addressing Behavior: As Simple as R-E-D-I-R-E-C-T
Conclusion   On Magic Wands, Being Human, Reconnection, and Change: Four Messages of Hope
Further Resources
Connect and Redirect Refrigerator Sheet
When a Parenting Expert Loses It
A Note to Our Child’s Caregivers
Twenty Discipline Mistakes Even Great Parents Make
An Excerpt from The Whole-Brain Child
Acknowledgments
Other Books by This Author







BEFORE YOU READ THIS BOOK
A Question
A cereal bowl gets thrown across the kitchen, splattering milk and Cheerios all over the wall.
The dog runs in from the backyard and has inexplicably been painted blue.
One of your kids threatens a younger sibling.
You get a call from the principal’s office for the third time this month.
What do you do?
Before you answer, we want to ask you to completely forget about everything you know about discipline. Forget what you think the word means, and forget what you’ve heard about how parents should respond when kids do something they’re not supposed to.
Instead, ask yourself a question: Are you open to at least thinking about a different approach to discipline? One that helps you achieve your immediate goals of getting your kids to do the right thing in the moment, as well a