




About the Author
Emily Barr worked as a journalist in London but always hankered after a quiet room and a book to write. She went travelling for a year, which gave her an idea for a novel set in the world of backpackers in Asia. This became Backpack, a thriller that won the WHSmith New Talent Award. Her first YA thriller, The One Memory of Flora Banks, has been published in twenty-seven countries and was shortlisted for the YA Book Prize. Emily’s third YA thriller, The Girl Who Came Out of the Woods, was published in 2019 and nominated for the Carnegie Award. Things to Do Before the End of the World is her fourth YA novel. Emily lives in Cornwall with her husband and their children.
Follow Emily Barr
on Twitter @emily_barr
and Instagram @emilybarr01
#BeforeTheEndOfTheWorld








Books by Emily Barr
THE ONE MEMORY OF FLORA BANKS
THE TRUTH AND LIES OF ELLA BLACK
THE GIRL WHO CAME OUT OF THE WOODS
THINGS TO DO BEFORE THE END OF THE WORLD








PENGUIN BOOKS
UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | AustraliaIndia | New Zealand | South Africa
Penguin Books is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at global.penguinrandomhouse.com.
www.penguin.co.ukwww.puffin.co.ukwww.ladybird.co.uk

First published 2020
Text copyright © Emily Barr, 2020Cover image copyright © ShutterstockEmoji (page 204) copyright © Shutterstock
The moral right of the author has been asserted
ISBN: 978-0-241-34528-3
This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.








For Seb








12 December
You know when you worry about everything all the time? Sometimes it turns out that it’s the thing you haven’t bothered to think about – the thing that’s too outlandish, even for you – that turns out to be the one that’s going to get you. That was what happened that day.
It was a cold afternoon, a Thursday. There was a Christmas party going on at college and everyone else was there. I never went to parties, so I had slipped out of the building and melted away (knowing no one would notice), and now I was walking round the park to kill time. Mum worked at home, and I didn’t want to see the pity and frustration on her face when she realized I hadn’t gone to the Christmas thing. I was planning to wait it out for a bit and then pretend I’d had a lovely time.
The grass was still crunchy underfoot in the shade. I crisscrossed the park to stomp on the crispest leaves, telling myself that I would need to be braver than this in future, because I had promised myself I would audition for the play, and a gi