IET Intelligent Transport Systems
Research Article
Enterprise architecture within railway
systems engineering
ISSN 1751-956X
Received on 21st March 2018
Revised 15th August 2018
Accepted on 29th October 2018
E-First on 18th June 2019
doi: 10.1049/iet-its.2018.5062
www.ietdl.org
Silvia Umiliacchi1 , Davinder Bhatia1, Andrew Brownlee1, Colin Brown1
1Network Rail, Enterprise House – 167-169 Westbourne Terrace, London, UK
 E-mail: silvia.umiliacchi@networkrail.co.uk
Abstract: Owing to the complexity of the railway system, introducing new technologies or upgrading existing systems requires a
whole system approach, ensuring effective integration and alignment with business needs. Enterprise architecture has been
used to address this complexity, but there are currently no standardised enterprise architecture frameworks for the railway. The
authors define an approach for building a whole railway system architecture framework by identifying architectural needs,
analysing existing frameworks, and developing a proposed solution. The case study to support this work, taken from the GB
Digital Railway programme, is an application of the proposed solution for producing requirements.
1 Introduction
1.1 Background and motivation
In the context of a continuous evolution of technology and business
needs, it is becoming challenging for the railway to keep pace.
New ways of thinking and system design are essential. It
becomes important to understand and design a system as a whole in
its environment, including all of its dimensions: business,
processes, people, and technology, and their interconnections. A
whole system approach is necessary to develop whole system
emerging properties that go beyond each individual system; whole
system emerging properties are features that are meaningful to the
whole system rather than its parts [1].
In addition, a formal and precise language for describing a
whole system and its context is crucial to avoid the ambiguity
intrinsic to natural language.
Finally, in order to be able to develop ever more complex
systems in acceptable timeframes, it is fundamental to be able to
design 
systems 
iteratively 
at 
different 
levels 
of 
detail
simultaneously.
1.2 Objective
The objective of this work is to develop a novel ontology-based
enterprise architecture framework that implements a whole system
approach to address the complexity of the railway system.
The framework enables understanding and design of the key
aspects of a complex system as a whole, alignment of solution/
technology to business needs, and ability to assess the impact of
changes and modify designs or requirements with minimal effort
and cost.
1.3 Paper structure
The rest of this paper is organised as follows: Section 2 provides a
definition of the main concepts used in this paper; Section 3
discusses the most well-known frameworks and formal languages
available in the railway industry using the identified needs as
assessment criteria; Section 4 provides an overview of the
fr