

















Original title: MASAJE ERÓTICO PARA PAREJAS
© 2008 by Editorial Océano, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain)
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, whether electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or other kind, without the prior permission in writing by the owners.
Photographs: Johann Wolf, Becky Lawton, Archivo Océano
Models: Alfonso Marín, Ivona Laluhova
English translation © 2015 by Skyhorse Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner without the express written consent of the publisher, except in the case of brief excerpts in critical reviews or articles. All inquiries should be addressed to Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018.
Skyhorse Publishing books may be purchased in bulk at special discounts for sales promotion, corporate gifts, fund-raising, or educational purposes. Special editions can also be created to specifications. For details, contact the Special Sales Department, Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018 or info@skyhorsepublishing.com.
Skyhorse® and Skyhorse Publishing® are registered trademarks of Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.®, a Delaware corporation.
Visit our website at www.skyhorsepublishing.com.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available on file.
Cover design by Qualcom Design
Cover photo credit Thinkstock
ISBN: 978-1-62914-469-6
Printed in Hong Kong






To all those imaginative lovers ready to discover new experiences packed with pleasure and sensuality.
  May the force of Eros and Aphrodite be with you.







Contents
Prologue: A Refined Touch

Physical Contact
Touch: Our Greatest Consolation
The Power of Touch
The Importance of Smell
A Brief History of Massage
The Pleasure of Touching and Being Touched
Knowing and Loving Yourself
The Enemies of Sensual Love
Massages for Two
Head Massage
Scalp Massage
Massaging the Back of the Neck
Facial Massage
A Magical Ritual of Love

With Great Pleasure
The Erogenous Zones
Erogenous Zones of the Man
Erogenous Zones of the Woman
Basic Techniques
The Grazing Touch
The Friction Stroke
Pressure Strokes
Kneading
Sensual Massages
The Keys to Success
Foot Massage
First Sensual Contact
Press and Glide
Stimulate the Key Points
A Relaxing Finish
The Back and Lumbar Area
A Stimulating Back Massage
A Back Massage for Him
A Back Massage for Her
Buttocks and Legs
Step by Step
Hands and Arms
Step by Step
Chest and Abdomen
Step by Step

A More Sensual Chest Massage
A More Sensual Belly Massage
Magic Moments
Love’s Oasis
The Bedroom
Pleasures of the Palate
Getting Ready for a Special Day
A Sexy, Hot Bath
Aphrodite’s Back Massage
Playing with Brushes and Feathers
Using Your Hands
Silk Caresses on Chest and Abdomen
Tracing Your Desire on Your Partner’s Skin
An Intense, Finishing Massage
Body on Body
Intimacy and Bonding
An Hour of Pl