





Dolly Alderton

EVERYTHING I KNOW ABOUT LOVE












FIG TREE
UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | Australia
India | New Zealand | South Africa
Fig Tree is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at global.penguinrandomhouse.com.

First published 2018
Copyright © Dolly Alderton, 2018
The moral right of the author has been asserted
Cover design: StudioHelen
Permissions: extract here from Alias Grace by Margaret Atwood, reproduced with permission of Curtis Brown Group Ltd, London, on behalf of Margaret Atwood. Copyright © O. W. Toad, 1996; lines here from ‘Lovesong’  taken from Crow by Ted Hughes (Faber and Faber, 1972), copyright © Ted Hughes, 1970, 1972; lines here from ‘Shelter from the Storm’ by Bob Dylan, copyright © 1974 by Ram’s Horn Music, renewed 2002 by Ram’s Horn Music, all rights reserved, international copyright secured, reprinted by permission; and lines here from ‘The More Loving One’ by W. H. Auden, copyright © 1960 by W. H. Auden, renewed, reprinted by permission of Curtis Brown, Ltd
ISBN: 978-0-241-98209-9








For Florence Kleiner











Everything I Knew About Love as a Teenager
Romantic love is the most important and exciting thing in the entire world.
If you don’t have it when you’re a proper grown-up then you have failed, just like so many of my art teachers who I have noted are ‘Miss’ instead of ‘Mrs’ and have frizzy hair and ethnic jewellery.
It is important to have a lot of sex with a lot of people but probably no more than ten.
When I’m a single woman in London I will be extremely elegant and slim and wear black dresses and drink Martinis and will only meet men at book launches and at exhibition openings.
The mark of true love is when two boys get in a physical fight over you. The sweet spot is drawn blood but no one having to go to hospital. One day this will happen to me, if I’m lucky.
It is important to lose your virginity after your seventeenth birthday, but before your eighteenth birthday. Literally, even if it’s just the day before, that’s fine, but if you go into your eighteenth year still a virgin you will never have sex.
You can snog as many people as you like and that’s fine, it doesn’t mean anything, it’s just practice.
The coolest boys are always tall and Jewish and have a car.
Older boys are the best kind because they’re more sophisticated and worldly and also they have slightly less stringent standards.
When friends have boyfriends they become boring. A friend having a boyfriend is only ever fun if you have a boyfriend too.
If you don’t ask your friend about their boyfriend at all they’ll eventually get the hint that you find it boring and they’ll stop going on about him.
It’s a good idea to get married a bit later in life and after you’ve lived a bit. Say, twenty-seven.
Farly and I will never fancy the same boy because she likes them short and cheeky like Nigel Harman and I like them macho and mysterious like Charlie Simpson from Busted. This is why our fri