




Julia Samuel

EVERY FAMILY HAS A STORY
How We Inherit Love and Loss










PENGUIN BOOKS
UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | AustraliaNew Zealand | India | South Africa
Penguin Books is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at global.penguinrandomhouse.com.

First published by Penguin Life in 2022
Copyright © Julia Samuel, 2022
The moral right of the author has been asserted
Cover image adapted from The Garden of Eden by C. F. A. Voysey © Victoria and Albert Museum, London.
This book is based on true events, but all persons appearing in the book are either fictitious or have had their names and identifying characteristics changed to protect their privacy. Any resemblance to real people, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
ISBN: 978-0-241-48064-9
This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.








For Catherine and Rachel, with my love








Introduction
Every family has a story. A story of love and loss, joy and pain.
The story of the family I was born into was one of great privilege and multiple traumas. But we didn’t tell stories. There was no narrative or understanding of what had been, what was going on, or how to deal with it. My parents were young adults during the Second World War. My father was in the Navy and my mother was a land girl. But that was not where their injuries lay. My mother’s parents and two siblings had all died suddenly and unexpectedly by the time she was twenty-five years old. My father’s father and brother had also died, without warning, when he was still a young man. Their fathers had fought in the First World War.
As with the majority of people living in that era, and as my generation of baby-boomers can attest, they abided by the need to survive and multiply. They had admirable tenacity, grit and courage. Their route to survival, the only one open to them, was to forget and move on. They lived by the adage that what you don’t talk or think about won’t hurt you. Putting on a good show, hiding vulnerability and, yes, a stiff upper lip were the mantras of my childhood and that of most of my generation. But even when it’s out of sight – perhaps especially when it’s out of sight – the fingerprint of love and loss inside us continues to gather complexity. It isn’t always visible to the naked eye, but is still complicated, still textured, still painful.
What is often not recognized is that behaviours like these are the legacy of trauma. Trauma doesn’t have language. Trauma has no concept of time. It sits on h