













PRAISE FOR FROM BURNOUT TO PURPOSE
“From Burnout to Purpose explores what’s common among those who are successful, happy and fulfilled by their work, and what is common among those who experience the exact opposite. If you struggle in a job that’s draining your energy and spirit, or if you feel like you’re destined for burnout, this book will help you pivot to purpose.”
—SHAWN ACHOR,The New York Times bestselling author ofThe Happiness Advantage and Big Potential
“I recommend From Burnout to Purpose for anyone who wants to learn how to achieve a sense of purpose and fulfillment—especially while working for someone else. That’s typically talked about only in entrepreneurship.”
—ELLEN ROGIN,The New York Times bestselling authorof Picture Your Prosperity
“Do you wonder How on Earth did I get so burned out? How did this happen … to ME?! From Burnout to Purpose has unique answers to that question and offers you a path back to power, purpose, and peace for your work.”
—JANET BRAY ATTWOOD,co-author of The New York Times bestsellersThe Passion Test and Your Hidden Riches
“If you used to be happy with your work, but now you’re feeling burned out or questioning if you’re on the right path, From Burnout to Purpose can show how you may have taken a wrong turn. From Burnout to Purpose offers powerful solutions for getting back on track to loving your work.”
—MARCI SHIMOFF,#1 New York Times bestselling author, Happy for No Reason andChicken Soup for the Woman’s Soul
“What if everything you learned about achieving career happiness and success was missing a key ingredient? From Burnout to Purpose takes the concepts of self-care, well-being, and connecting with a sense of purpose to a new level. It’s an accessible approach for taking your power back, aligning with fulfillment, and recovering from feeling depleted at the deepest level.”
—CHRIS ATTWOOD,co-author of The New York Times bestsellersThe Passion Test and Your Hidden Riches


























FROM BURNOUT TO PURPOSE
Simple Strategies for a Soul-Fulfilling Approach to Work
Copyright © 2022 Gina S. Calvano
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be used or reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means whatsoever, including electronic or mechanical, photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without the written permission of the publisher. For information, contact info@indigoforce.com.
The author of this book is not a physician or a mental health professional. This book is not to be used as a substitute for medical treatment, psychotherapy, or another health program of any nature. If you choose to follow any of the techniques offered in this book, you willingly and knowingly shall bind yourself, the members of your family or those living with you, and anyone impacted by your actions to not hold the author or those associated with the book as responsible for any and all risks, injuries or damages that may have incurred from your actions and 