




















Dedication
FOR MEREDY AND MICHAEL
AND IN MEMORY OF ROB ERIOV AND RALPH METZNER








Contents
Cover
Title Page
Dedication
Part I: A Shared Yearning
Chapter 1: An Invitation
Chapter 2: The Altar of Noise
Chapter 3: Silence Is Presence
Chapter 4: The Moral Dimensions of Silence
Part II:   The Science of Silence
Chapter 5: Florence Nightingale Would Be Pissed
Chapter 6: A Mute Button for the Mind
Part III: The Spirit of Silence
Chapter 7: Why Silence Is Scary
Chapter 8: Lotuses and Lilies
Part IV: Quiet Inside
Chapter 9: A Field Guide to Finding Silence
Chapter 10: The Healthy Successor to the Smoke Break
Chapter 11: Rapturous Silence
Part V: Quiet Together
Chapter 12: Working Quiet
Chapter 13: Living Quiet
Part VI: A Society That Honors Silence
Chapter 14: Ma Goes to Washington
Chapter 15: A Culture of Golden Silence
Thirty-Three Ways to Find Silence
Our Gratitude
Notes
Index
About the Authors
Copyright
About the Publisher








Part I
A Shared Yearning









Chapter 1
An Invitation
What’s the deepest silence you’ve ever known?
You can trust the first memory that comes to you.
No need to overthink it.
As you remember the experience, see if you can settle into it. Recall where you are, what’s happening around you, and who, if anyone, is present. See if you can summon the atmosphere—the quality of light, the mood in the air, the feeling in your body.
Is it quiet to the ears?
Or is it the kind of silence that comes when no person or thing is laying claim to your attention?
Is it quiet in your nerves?
Or is it the kind of silence that lives deeper still—like when the turbulent waters of internal chatter suddenly part, revealing a clear path forward?
Take a moment to consider what might sound like a strange question: Is the silence simply the absence of noise—or is it also a presence unto itself?
* * *
Over the past several years, we’ve been exploring these questions with an unusual mix of people: neuroscientists, activists, poets, corporate executives, national politicians, teaching physicians, environmental advocates, a whirling dervish, a White House staffer, Buddhist teachers, Christian preachers, a Grammy-winning opera singer, a man incarcerated on death row, a Hollywood sound engineer, a heavy metal front man, a cowboy-lumberjack, and an air force lieutenant colonel. We’ve been exploring these questions for ourselves, too. The explorations, both personal and shared, have taken us to many places, including:
The balmy air at sunrise over a vast ocean.
The stillness amidst untrampled high mountain snow.
The questions have also taken us to places that aren’t auditorily quiet: Births. Deaths. Moments of awe. Moments of dramatic and unexpected change when we’re left grasping for familiar explanations until we finally have to surrender to the fact that there’s nothing left to say.
For us and for others, moments of profound silence have sometimes come through surprisingly high-decibel settings:
Running the perfect line through 