














JESSICA HAGY



WORKMAN PUBLISHING • NEW YORK















Contents
Introduction: Why Be Interesting
Step 1: Go Exploring
Step 2: Share What You Discover
Step 3: Do Something. Anything.
Step 4: Embrace Your Weirdness
Step 5: Have a Cause
Step 6: Minimize the Swagger
Step 7: Give It a Shot
Step 8: Hop Off the Bandwagon
Step 9: Grow a Pair
Step 10: Ignore the Scolds
Epilogue: In Summary
Acknowledgements
About the Author






Introduction: Why Be Interesting 




To limit your regrets.
So you can respect yourself.
In order to banish boredom.
So that you can leave a mark, not a blemish.
And most of all, because you can.










Step 1



Explore ideas, places, and opinions. The inside of the echo chamber is where all the boring people hang out.







No one has seen exactly what you have. No one has been to all the places you’ve visited. No one feels just as you do. 
Find out why.








How far to go? Roll the dice. Seven blocks it is. Take the train? Roll evens and buy the ticket. Two dice can take you practically anywhere and save you lots of time on unimportant decisions. Keep them in your pocket. They’ll help keep things interesting.








Without a map, you can find uncharted places. Be unreachable; you can talk to people on your journey. Miss a few updates from others, and discover yourself instead. Your gadgets are tethering you to a world you know very well. 
Turn them off to explore new places. 
















Do the opposite of expected. Defend the guilty. Question the pure. See which facts are opinions and which opinions are facts. There are many sides to every story, and they all need to be told.








If only for a few minutes. Stroll around in the early hours, when the sunlight is a sliver. Walk to a different mailbox. Read magazines in a Laundromat. Shower in the dark. Sip hot chocolate in an alley. Reclaim your spare moments.






















Open your mouth and say nothing, just observe. How does the early morning dew taste? What is the flavor profile of your commute? Does someone else’s detergent remind you of childhood? Why do airports all smell the same? 








Wake up before the alarm. Steal moments between stoplights to compose poems. Sneak off to a moonlit spot when you’d otherwise be watching something on a glowing screen. Work at night and play in the daytime. Carve out hours for the dreams you’ve been putting off. 
There’s always time to explore. You get to decide when it is.








A faded sign. An eye patch. A broken lock. A photo torn in half. A flat tire. A small scar. A spilled cup. A pause when her lover’s name is mentioned. Each detail tells a story. And every room holds a thousand details. Look for them. 
Find the interesting stories. 













Parents hate it when kids do it.Why? Because.Why? Because.Why? Because.
And on and on. But try it. You’ll be surprised at how quickly a simple Why? can turn into a fascinating Because. 










Step 2



And be generous when you do. No