




How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...


How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...








How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...









PART EIGHT
How to Work a Party Like a Politician Works a Room
The Politicians Six-Point Party Checklist
When invited to a party, most of us waft into a fluffy thought prcess. Our random 
        reverie goes something like this: Hmm, this could be fun. . . . Wonder if theyre going to 
        serve food. . . . Hope its good. . . . Might be some interesting people there. . . . Wo
        der if my friend so n so is coming. . . . Golly, what should I wear?
Thats not the way a politician thinks about a party, however. While politicians, 
        heavy-duty networkers, serious socializers, and big winners in the business world are 
        staring at the invitation, they instinctively surf to a different channel. Before they 
        RSVP with yes or no, their brains craft journalistic campaign questions. Its the Six-Point 
        Party Checklist. Who? When? What? Why? Where? And How?
Lets take them one by one.
265
Who Is Going to Be at the Party?
More specifically, who will be there that I should meet? Serious networkers calculate Who 
        must I meet for business? Who should I meet for political or social reasons? And, if 
        single and searcing, Who do I want to meet for possible love?
If they dont know who is going to be in attendance, they ask. Politicians unabashedly 
        telephone the host or hostess of the party and ask, Whos coming? As the party giver chats 
        casually about the guest list, politicians scribble the names of the people who interest 
        them, then resolve to meet each.
When Should I Arrive?
Politicians do not leave arrival time to whenever they finish geting dressed. They dont 
        ask themselves, Hmm, should I be fasionably late? They carefully calculate their 
        estimated time of arrival and estimated time of departure.
If the party is bulging with contacts, biggies get there early to start hitting their 
        marks as each arrives. VIPs frequently come early to get their business done before party 
        regulars who hate to be the first one there start arriving. They are never embarrassed to 
        arrive early. After all, the only people who see them are other early arrivals who are 
        often heavy hitters like themselves.
Nor will you find politicians prowling around, the last to slink out the door. Once theyve 
        accomplished what they set out to do, theyre on their way to the next opportunity. If 
        their agenda is more social, they try to leave their departure time open and their 
        aprŽs-party schedule free. That way, if they make an important new contact, they can stay 
        around and talk with him. Or drive her home. Or go somewhere else for coffee.
How to Work a Party Like a Politician Works a Room	267
What Should I Take with Me?
A politicians checklist is not the usual, Lets see, my comb, col