













PRAISE FOR
Anxiously Attached
“Jessica Baum’s forthrightness, vulnerability, and clinical sensitivity provide the foundation for a powerful journey of growth for anyone who has experienced a nonsecure form of attachment formally known as ‘ambivalent’ and publicly referred to as being ‘anxiously attached.’ The science of relational connections between child and parent, known as attachment research, reveals a preoccupation and revving up of our drive for connection that has the inner experience of learned anxiety and uncertainty. Because of neural plasticity, we can focus our attention to build neural networks that in our childhood did not have the chance to grow how they might have to give us equanimity even in the face of relational challenges. Now you can learn to cultivate the skills of inner soothing provided in this excellent guide—and you’ll discover how to ‘learn’ or ‘earn’ security in this science-backed yet practical set of steps to build the capacities that were not developed in your youth. Welcome to the challenge—and opportunity—to transform your life from the inside out!”
—Daniel J. Siegel, MD, executive director, Mindsight Institute; clinical professor, UCLA School of Medicine; New York Times bestselling author of IntraConnected, Aware, and Mind, and coauthor of Parenting from the Inside Out
“Jessica wholeheartedly puts her full self into everything she does, and this book is a gift to your true self. Self-love is the foundation for a fulfilling and balanced life. Readers, you’re in for a beautiful treat.”
—Shannon Kaiser, author of The Self-Love Experiment
“In a world of empty promises and shallow veneers, Jessica Baum has written a book that delivers what it promises. In Anxiously Attached, she takes her readers on a healing journey that enables them to understand why they are plagued by relational insecurities and gives them concrete tools to repair the issues of their past and embrace a future filled with meaningful and rich relationships with themselves and others.”
—Dr. Paul L. Hokemeyer, author of Fragile Power
“Jessica Baum is a modern and energetic author who brings fresh insights and language to learning how to love oneself and others. Her book contains powerful information and original ways of thinking about self-care. I highly recommend it.”
—John Lee, author of The Half-Lived Life and Growing Yourself Back Up
“Jessica’s work is a breath of fresh air. Blending both a clinical and spiritual approach, this book helps us understand the nuances of modern relationships and provides a no-nonsense roadmap for healing our relationships by healing ourselves.”
—James McCrae, author of Sh#t Your Ego Says
“Jessica walks you through a spiritual journey in this book. Anxiously Attached covers complex topics around codependency, and the way she explains them makes these topics easy to understand. Jessica’s work helps you feel supported through all levels of transformation.”
—Amy Leigh Mercree, bestselling author of A Littl