




Rich Dad, Poor Dad


Rich Dad, Poor Dad
By Robert T. Kiyosaki
INTRODUCTION
There is a Need
Does school prepare children for the real world? “Study hard and get good grades and you 
        will find a high-paying job with great benefits,” my parents used to say. Their goal in 
        life was to provide a college education for my older sister and me, so that we would have 
        the greatest chance for success in life. When T finally earned my diploma in 
        1976-graduating with honors, and near the top of my class, in accounting from Florida 
        State University-my parents had realized their goal. It was the crowning achievement of 
        their lives. In accordance with the “Master Plan,” I was hired by a “Big 8” accounting 
        firm, and I looked forward to a long career and retirement at an early age.
My husband, Michael, followed a similar path. We both came from hard?working families, of 
        modest means but with strong work ethics. Michael also graduated with honors, but he did 
        it twice: first as an engineer and then from law school. He was quickly recruited by a 
        prestigious Washington, D.C., law firm that specialized in patent law, and his future 
        seemed bright, career path well-defined and early retirement guaranteed.
Although we have been successful in our careers, they have not turned out quite as we 
        expected. We both have changed positions several times-for all the right reasons-but there 
        are no pension plans vesting on our behalf. Our retirement funds are growing only through 
        our individual contributions.
Michael and I have a wonderful marriage with three great children. As I write this, two 
        are in college and one is just beginning high school. We have spent a fortune making sure 
        our children have received the best education available.
One day in 1996, one of my children came home disillusioned with school. He was bored and 
        tired of studying. “Why should I put time into studying subjects I will never use in real 
        life?” he protested.
Without thinking, I responded, “Because if you don't get good grades, you won't get into 
        college.” “Regardless of whether I go to college,” he replied, “I'm going to be rich.”
“If you don't graduate from college, you won't get a good job,” I responded with a tinge 
        of panic and motherly concern. “And if you don't have a good job, how do you plan to get 
        rich?”
My son smirked and slowly shook his head with mild boredom. We have had this talk many 
        times before. He lowered his head and rolled his eyes. My words of motherly wisdom were 
        falling on deaf ears once again.
Though smart and strong-willed, he has always been a polite and respectful young man.
“Mom,” he began. It was my turn to be lectured. “Get with the times! Look around; the 
        richest people didn't get rich because of their educations. Look at Michael Jordan and 
        Madonna. Eve