 
1 
 
Interne 
LinX4Rail: Towards the European Railway System Architecture 
Pierre-Etienne GAUTIER1, Marc SANGO2, Jean-Baptiste SIMONNET2, Fabien LETOURNEAUX2,  
Christophe CHERON2, Judicaël DEHOTIN ADOUNVO1 
1SNCF Réseau / DGII, Saint-Denis, France  
2SNCF / DTIPG, Saint-Denis, France 
Corresponding Author: Marc Sango (marc.sango@sncf.fr) 
Abstract 
Several architecture initiatives for the railway system are currently in progress in Shift2Rail programme (e.g., 
ATO projects, CONNECTA, etc.) and other European initiatives (e.g., EULYNX, RCA, OCORA, etc.). However, these 
initiatives mostly address the architecture in a fragmented way, focusing on their specific system-of-interest 
(CCS, ATO, TCMS, Energy, etc.). An overall architecture is required to support an evolution of the railway system 
towards digitized systems, migration of the legacy systems and significant breakthroughs introduction. The 
objective of LinX4Rail project is to develop the European Railway System Architecture, federating the already 
existing initiatives and capitalising on lessons learned from other sectors. This paper presents the methodology 
used to set up the preliminary description of this reference railway system architecture in three layers: services, 
operations and assets. This accepted divisions of the railway system in three layers are seen as a tool for simple 
architecture description and should allow iteratively description and refinement of services, operations, assets 
and their interfaces. LinX4Rail is an ongoing Shift2Rail project, and it is executed according to the system 
architecting process that is developed for the purpose of the System Pillar in Europe’s Rail Joint Undertaking 
programme, the successor of Shift2Rail programme. The methodology will be continuously revisited to adapt it 
whenever required and align the work programme with System Pillar requirements. 
Keywords: Railway; System; Architecture; Integration; Interoperability 
1. Introduction 
In the railway sector, there are several architecture initiatives within Shift2Rail programme [1] or in the frame 
of other European collaborations, such as wayside Control Command System (CCS) in RCA [2], CCS on-board in 
OCORA [3]. These projects mostly address the architecture in a fragmented and isolated way, focusing on their 
specific system-of-interest, while an overarching architecture is required to support an evolution of the railway 
system towards digitized systems, migration of the legacy systems and significant breakthroughs 
introduction. The objective of LinX4Rail project is to build a reference architecture covering the entire railway 
system, supported by all involved stakeholders, and allowing all the current related architectures of subsystems 
(CCS, ATO, TCMS, Energy, …) to be situated in this reference architecture. In addition, a reference architecture 
may supplement the structure and interoperability requirements presented in the TSI (Technical Specifications 
for Interope