















 
More Praise for Lost Connections
‘Wise, probing and deeply generous, Hari has produced a book packed with explosive revelations about our epidemic of despair. Yes, it is about depression but it is also about the way we live now – and the havoc perennial isolation is wrecking on our collective mental health and general wellbeing’ NAOMI KLEIN
‘An important, convention-challenging, provocative and supremely timely read. It is about time we looked at mental health through the prism of society rather than, simply, medicine. This brilliant book helps us do that’ MATT HAIG
‘A beautiful book from the person that brilliantly once said “the opposite of addiction is connection” and who now explores and offers some solutions to our disconnection’ JEMIMA KHAN
‘This is one of those extraordinary books that you want all your friends to read immediately – because the shift in world-view is so compelling and dramatic that you wonder how you’ll be able to have conversations with them otherwise. A highly personal book, written with humility, humour and candour . . . I honestly couldn’t put it down’ BRIAN ENO
‘An exquisitely lucid treatise on why no person is, has been or ever should be an island … From slightly seedy to suicidal – however you are feeling – read this book and it will honestly help you to understand which roads we must walk if we want to see true, lasting change’ EMMA THOMPSON
‘Johann Hari asks the big questions and provides the big answers – answers that have been neglected for far too long. You cannot fully understand this great curse of our age until you have read it’ GEORGE MONBIOT
‘A vital, compelling and eye-opening examination of the myths we have been taught to believe about depression and anxiety … Brilliantly interweaves science, philosophy and searing personal experience, and methodically dissects the truth around mental health’ GLENN GREENWALD
‘This is an extraordinary, elegant exploration of a timely problem. It is written with wit and elan and provides a devastating analysis of our society that is both shocking and profound … This book deftly challenges the current orthodoxy around depression and is a breath of fresh air’ MAX PEMBERTON
‘Through a breathtaking journey across the world, Johann Hari exposes us to extraordinary people and concepts that will change the way we see depression for ever. It is a brave, moving, brilliant, simple and earth-shattering book that must be read by everyone and anyone who is longing for a life of meaning and connection’ EVE ENSLER
‘Johann Hari is again getting people to think differently about our mood, our minds and our drug use, and that is something we need a lot more of’ BILL MAHER
‘Depression and anxiety are the maladies of our time, but not for the reasons you think. In this compulsively readable history of these ailments, Johann Hari tells us how the science went wrong and how the obvious got overlooked. An important diagnosis from one of the ablest journalist writing in the Eng