Citation: Felez, J.; Vaquero-Serrano,
M.A. Virtual Coupling in Railways:
A Comprehensive Review. Machines
2023, 11, 521. https://doi.org/
10.3390/machines11050521
Academic Editors: Peter Gaspar and
Junnian Wang
Received: 24 March 2023
Revised: 27 April 2023
Accepted: 29 April 2023
Published: 1 May 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
machines
Review
Virtual Coupling in Railways: A Comprehensive Review
Jesus Felez *
and Miguel Angel Vaquero-Serrano
Mechanical Engineering Department, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Jose Gutierrez Abascal 2,
28006 Madrid, Spain; miguel.vaquero.serrano@upm.es
* Correspondence: jesus.felez@upm.es
Abstract: The current mobility situation is constantly changing as people are increasingly moving to
urban areas. Therefore, a ﬂexible mode of transport with high-capacity passenger trains and a high
degree of modularity in the trains’ composition is necessary. Virtual coupling (VC) is a promising
solution to this problem because it signiﬁcantly increases the capacity of a line and provides a more
ﬂexible mode of operation than conventional signaling systems. This novel review, in which approxi-
mately 200 papers were analyzed, identiﬁes the main topics of current railway-related VC research,
and represents the ﬁrst step toward the implementation of VC in future railways. It was found that
industry research has mainly focused on the feasibility of VC implementation and operation, whereas
in academia, which is coordinated with industry, research has focused on control and communication
systems. From a technological perspective, the main challenges for VC were identiﬁed with regard to
aspects such as safety, control technology, interlocking, vehicle-to-vehicle communication, coopera-
tive train protection and control, and integrated trafﬁc management. The important directions for
future research that have been identiﬁed for future development include complete dynamic mod-
els, real-time controllers, reliable and secure communication, different communication topologies,
cybersecurity, intelligent control, reinforcement learning, and Big Data analytics.
Keywords: virtual coupling; railway operation; moving block; rail control systems; optimal control;
robust control; model predictive control; intelligent control
1. Introduction
The current mobility situation is constantly changing as people are increasingly mov-
ing to urban areas. Meanwhile, people living in city centers and metropolitan areas tend
not to use cars; thus, there is an increasing demand for efﬁcient, modern, punctual, and
environmentally sustainable transportation.
This growth in the demand for rail transport was reported in [1]. According to this
report, which describes the increase in the number of passengers (in short scale billions) per
kilo