













Agile Model-Based Systems Engineering Cookbook
Second Edition
Improve system development by applying proven recipes for effective agile systems engineering
Dr. Bruce Powel Douglass

BIRMINGHAM—MUMBAI

Agile Model-Based Systems Engineering Cookbook
Second Edition
Copyright © 2022 Packt Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or reviews.
Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. However, the information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the author, nor Packt Publishing or its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to have been caused directly or indirectly by this book.
Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information.
Senior Publishing Product Manager: Denim Pinto
Acquisition Editor – Peer Reviews: Saby Dsilva
Project Editor: Meenakshi Vijay
Content Development Editor: Rebecca Robinson
Copy Editor: Safis Editing
Technical Editor: Srishty Bhardwaj
Proofreader: Safis Editing
Indexer: Pratik Shirodkar
Presentation Designer: Rajesh Shirsath
First published: March 2021
Second edition: December 2022
Production reference: 2271222
Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.
Livery Place
35 Livery Street
Birmingham
B3 2PB, UK.
ISBN 978-1-80323-582-0
www.packt.com

Foreword
As a systems engineer, you may know that viewpoints are important to understand context. When you read this foreword, you should be aware that I wrote it from my individual viewpoint. My own professional role involves the development of methods, templates, and training to make Systems engineering applicable for organizations, and also producing complex systems consisting of mechanical and electrical hardware, software, and the human beings operating it or interacting with it. Systems engineering is nowadays challenged with several constraints and boundary conditions requiring permanent change in the organization and its processes, methods, and tools. The need to work closely cross-domain (e. g. mechanical and hardware designers working together with software programmers, testers, and stakeholders), the need to quickly react to external (and internal) disruptions, and the need to bridge cross-cultural gaps require several significant changes in parallel. And this is difficult for bigger organizations and hard to realize. This is where this book helps significantly and contributes to mastering such challenges. The answer to those challenges lies in the introduction and application of Systems Engineering (SE) and i