Newnes is an imprint of Elsevier
30 Corporate Drive, Suite 400, Burlington, MA 01803, USA
Linacre House, Jordan Hill, Oxford OX2 8DP, UK
# 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exception:
Case Study 6.8 on page 555 # 2009 by Paul Gartz. Used with permission. All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic
or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information storage and retrieval system,
without permission in writing from the publisher. Details on how to seek permission, further
information about the Publisher’s permissions policies and our arrangements with organizations such
as the Copyright Clearance Center and the Copyright Licensing Agency, can be found at our
website: www.elsevier.com/permissions.
This book and the individual contributions contained in it are protected under copyright by the
Publisher (other than as may be noted herein).
Notices
Knowledge and best practice in this field are constantly changing. As new research and
experience broaden our understanding, changes in research methods, professional practices, or
medical treatment may become necessary.
Practitioners and researchers must always rely on their own experience and knowledge in
evaluating and using any information, methods, compounds, or experiments described herein.
In using such information or methods they should be mindful of their own safety and the
safety of others, including parties for whom they have a professional responsibility.
To the fullest extent of the law, neither the Publisher nor the authors, contributors, or
editors, assume any liability for any injury and/or damage to persons or property as a matter of
products liability, negligence or otherwise, or from any use or operation of any methods,
products, instructions, or ideas contained in the material herein.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Mission-critical and safety-critical systems handbook : design and development for embedded
applications / edited by Kim Fowler ; technical consultant, Sharfus Draid, Inc.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-0-7506-8567-2 (alk. paper)
1. Reliability (Engineering) 2. Fault tolerance (Engineering) 3. Embedded computer systems–
Design and construction. 4. Safety factor in engineering. I. Fowler, Kim.
TA169.M574 2010
620’.00452–dc22
2009038373
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
For information on all Newnes publications
visit our Web site at www.elsevierdirect.com
08
09
10
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Printed in the United States of America
About the Editor
Kim Fowler has spent 27 years in the design, development, and project management of
medical, military, and satellite equipment. He cofounded Stimsoft, a medical products
company, in 1998 and sold it in 2003; he has also worked for JHU/APL and Ixthos. Kim
currently consults in technical development for both co