Innovations Syst Softw Eng (2007) 3:75–102
DOI 10.1007/s11334-006-0011-y
ORIGINAL
PAPER
Model-driven architecture-centric engineering of (embedded)
software intensive systems: modeling theories and architectural
milestones
Manfred Broy
Received: 14 April 2006 / Accepted: 18 August 2006 / Published online: 15 November 2006
© Springer-Verlag London Limited 2006
Abstract
Today, in general, embedded software is
distributed onto networks and structured into logical
components that interact asynchronously by exchanging
messages. The software system is connected to sensors,
actuators, human machine interfaces and networks. In
this paper we study fundamental models of composed
embedded software systems and their properties, iden-
tify and describe various basic views, and show how
they are related. We consider, in particular, models of
data, states, interfaces, functionality, hierarchically com-
posed systems, and processes. We study relationships by
abstraction and reﬁnement as well as forms of composi-
tion and modularity. In particular, we introduce a com-
prehensive mathematical model and a corresponding
mathematical theory for composed systems, its essential
views and their relationships. We introduce two meth-
odologically essential, complementary and orthogonal
concepts for the structured modeling of multifunctional
embedded systems in software and systems engineering
and their scientiﬁc foundation. One approach addresses
mainly tasks in requirements engineering and the speci-
ﬁcation of the comprehensive user functionality of mul-
tifunctional systems in terms of their functions, features
and services. The other approach essentially addresses
the design phase with its task to develop logical archi-
tectures formed by networks of interactive components
that are speciﬁed by their interface behavior.
M. Broy (B)
Institut für Informatik, Technische Universität München,
80290 München, Germany
e-mail: broy@in.tum.de
URL: http://wwwbroy.informatik.tu-muenchen.de
1 Motivation
Development of software in general, and in particular
of embedded software, is today one of the most com-
plex but at the same time most effective tasks in the
engineering of innovative applications. Software drives
innovation in many application domains. Modern soft-
ware systems are typically embedded in technical or
organizational processes, distributed, dynamic, and ac-
cessed concurrently by a variety of independent user
interfaces. Just by constructing appropriate software we
can provide engineering solutions that can calculate re-
sults, communicate messages, control devices, and illus-
trate and animate all kinds of information.
Making embedded systems and their development
more accessible and reducing their complexity in terms
of development, operation, and maintenance we use
classical concepts from engineering, namely abstraction,
the separation of issues, and appropriate ways of struc-
turing software. Well-chosen models and their theo-
ries support such concepts. Also so