Softw Syst Model (2011) 10:55–62
DOI 10.1007/s10270-009-0135-2
EXPERT’S VOICE
Modeling NASA swarm-based systems: using agent-oriented
software engineering and formal methods
Joaquin Peña · Christopher A. Rouff ·
Mike Hinchey · Antonio Ruiz-Cortés
Received: 15 September 2009 / Accepted: 22 September 2009 / Published online: 9 October 2009
© Springer-Verlag 2009
Abstract
The need to collect new data and perform new
science is causing the complexity of NASA missions to con-
tinually increase. This complexity needs to be controlled
via new technological advancements and balanced with a
reduction in mission and operation costs. Planned and
hypothesized missions involve self-management, biological-
inspiration based on swarms, and autonomous operation as a
means of achieving these goals. We consider a tailored soft-
ware engineering approach to developing such systems based
on agent-oriented software engineering and formal methods.
Communicated by Robert France.
The work reported in this article was supported by the Spanish
Research Projects TIN2006-00472, TIN2009-07366 and
P07-TIC-02533, by the NASA Software Engineering Laboratory,
NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD, USA, and by
the NASA Ofﬁce of Safety and Mission Assurance (OSMA) Software
Assurance Research Program (SARP) and by Science Foundation
Ireland grant number 03/CE2/I303-1 to Lero—the Irish Software
Engineering Research Centre.
J. Peña
University of Seville, Seville, Spain
e-mail: joaquinp@us.es
C. A. Rouff
Lockheed Martin Corporation,
Advanced Technology Laboratories,
Arlington, VA, USA
e-mail: christopher.rouff@lmco.com
M. Hinchey (B)
Lero-the Irish Software Engineering Research Centre,
University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland
e-mail: mike.hinchey@lero.ie
A. Ruiz-Cortés
University of Seville, Seville, Spain
e-mail: aruiz@us.es
We report on advances in modeling, implementing, and
testing NASA swarm-based concept missions.
Keywords
Swarms · Emergent behavior · Agent-oriented
software engineering · Formal methods
1 Introduction
NASA is investigating new concepts for future space
exploration to conduct new science and reduce costs. Poten-
tial new mission concepts include the use of multiple space-
craft, unmanned autonomous vehicles (UAVs) and armies
of robots, operating like swarms in nature [3], to explore
harsh remote environments. Such missions will be neces-
sarily unmanned and highly autonomous, exhibiting the
properties of autonomic systems, being self-protecting, self-
healing, self-conﬁguring, and self-optimizing [16].
Swarms [1,5] consist of a large number of simple agents
that have local interactions (between each other and the envi-
ronment). There is no central controller directing the swarm
and no one agent has a global view; they are self-organizing
based on the emergent behaviors of the simple interactions.
This kind of system has many advantages since complex
behaviors emerge from the definition of simple individual
behaviors, thus reducing the design effort. I