International Journal on Software Tools for Technology Transfer
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10009-018-0482-9
FORMAL METHODS FOR TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
Modelling and simulating a Thai railway signalling system using
Coloured Petri Nets
Somsak Vanit-Anunchai1
© Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2018
Abstract
It is well known that formal veriﬁcation of a large railway signalling system encounters the state explosion problem. To alleviate
the problem, researchers usually concentrate on only route interlocking and abstract away other properties. Besides the route
interlocking, there are also other vital properties to which failure to comply could potentially lead to danger. According to
our experience, most of train accidents often involve human error and errors in other properties rather than errors in the route
interlocking. Thus, we encounter a dilemma between fully automated validation of an incomplete model or partial validation
of a complete model. We argue that formally modelling the complete model will be more valuable for the on-going projects
of the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) because it provides insights and can be used to train new signal engineers. This
paper focuses on the complete Coloured Petri Net model of a typical Thai railway signalling system: a double-line station
with one passing loop. The model includes train movements that can be simulated and graphically visualized. According to
SRT’s signalling principles, we have identiﬁed nine properties: route interlocking, alternative overlap, ﬂank protection, aspect
sequence, approach signal release, approach lock, back lock, sectional route release and quick route release. Lessons learnt
from using CPN Tools to model and validate the railway signalling systems are also discussed.
Keywords Interlocking tables · Route-based Interlocking · Approach lock · Back lock · Visualization extension
1 Introduction
Currently, the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) is undertak-
ing several projects expanding and upgrading their railway
lines. These projects involve design and installation of new
signalling systems. Although SRT and contractors have been
working together, the line of responsibility between both
parties is quite clear. Usually SRT works on functional
requirement and speciﬁcations that are arranged in the form
of interlocking tables. The tables are the tabular representa-
tion specifying the routes (the allowed passage of the train)
and the states/actions of all related signalling equipment.
Taking the approved interlocking tables as their input, the
contractors are more interested in providing the hardware
and software that conform to the tables. For example, based
on the approved interlocking table, the contractors create the
B Somsak Vanit-Anunchai
somsav@sut.ac.th
1
School of Telecommunication Engineering, Institute of
Engineering, Suranaree University of Technology, Muang,
Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand
ladder logic diagrams and rigorously test them using their
simulator