Modelling of Track Layout for Intelligent Railway
Signalling System: A Machine Learning Application
Y. Baviskar∗, U. Suryawanshi†, A. Sheikh
EED, VJTI, Mumbai, India.
Email:∗baviskaryogendra@gmail.com
†ussuryawanshi_m17@ee.vjti.ac.in
Abstract—The railway signalling domain is a complex critical
infrastructure, linking communication and number of control
elements. Ensuring safety in railway signalling system is always
considered as a guarantee of intact operation of the railway.
Current signalling system composes of centralized controllers
which provide a single feature such as interlocking, and
level crossing control. The Indian Railways (IR) uses Panel
Interlocking (PI), Route Relay Interlocking (RRI), and Solid
State Interlocking (SSI) or Electronic Interlocking (EI) for
signalling safety, however, permitting movement of the trains
lies in the hands of a human. The main challenge is to combine
multiple sources of data and deﬁne a system which can intensify
the functionality of the system. This paper mainly focuses on
development of an automated model, beneﬁcial to Intelligent
Signalling System (ISS). Assessing its ability to take a decision
which authorizes the movement of trains according to the
timetable and modify it depending on real-time information
using Machine Learning (ML). For modelling, IR standard
single line station layout is considered and graphical model-
based design techniques are implied. For analysis consider
the track sections as nodes, signals as the start point and the
end point linked to speciﬁc routes and assessing the developed
model for various operating scenarios keeping a strict check on
completeness and consistency. Implementation of such system
in the railway network will not only provide a comprehensive
level of safety in railway transportation but also takes a step
forward towards systematizing various methods and strategies
such as rescheduling system, monitoring performance under one
roof using ML
Keywords: Intelligent
Signalling system,
Machine Learning,
Route, Signalling principles.
I. INTRODUCTION
With rise in demand of Railway transportation being more
energy efﬁcient, safe, and environment friendly compared to
other modes of transport [1]. A train cannot proceed on the
portion of the track which is occupied by another train, hence,
for the movement of a train the system has to ensure the track
clearance before the signal is approved. Railway Signalling
and Control is complex and latches onto the subject, with
a history stretching back to the dawn of the Railway Age
180 years ago. From the 1920s, the track circuit rapidly
gained ground as the essential safety feature of a signalling
system as schemes grew in size and complexity. Solid State
Interlocking (SSI) remains the system of choice due to equip-
ment modularity, high system availability, ease of application,
good maintainability and cost effectiveness [2]. To monitor
the operational status of railway signalling systems, various
monitoring and recording