














Acclaim for the original edition of Nudge
“Nudge has changed the world. You may not realize it, but as a result of its findings you’re likely to live longer, retire richer, and maybe even save other people’s lives.”
—The Times (London)
“Probably the most influential popular science book ever written.”
—BBC Radio 4
“This gem of a book . . . is a must read.”
—Daniel Kahneman, Nobel Prize–winning author of Thinking, Fast and Slow
“Engaging and insightful . . . The conceptual argument is powerful, and most of the authors’ suggestions are common sense at its best. . . . For that we should all applaud loudly.”
—The New York Times Book Review
“This book is terrific. It will change the way you think, not only about the world around you and some of its bigger problems, but also about yourself.”
—Michael Lewis, author of Moneyball and Liar’s Poker
“One of the few books . . . that fundamentally changed the way I think about the world.”
—Steven D. Levitt, coauthor of Freakonomics
“Utterly brilliant . . . Nudge won’t nudge you—it will knock you off your feet.”
—Daniel Gilbert, author of Stumbling on Happiness
“Nudge is as important a book as any I’ve read in perhaps twenty years. It is a book that people interested in any aspect of public policy should read. It is a book that people interested in politics should read. It is a book that people interested in ideas about human freedom should read. It is a book that people interested in promoting human welfare should read. If you’re not interested in any of these topics, you can read something else.”
—Barry Schwartz, The American Prospect
“Engaging, informative, and thoroughly delightful.”
—Don Norman, author of The Design of Everyday Things and The Design of Future Things
“A wonderful book: more fun than any important book has a right to be—and yet it is truly both.”
—Roger Lowenstein, author of When Genius Failed
“Save the planet, save yourself. Do-gooders, policymakers, this one’s for you.” —Newsweek
“Great fun to read . . . Sunstein and Thaler are very persuasive.”
—Slate
“Nudge helps us understand our weaknesses, and suggests savvy ways to counter them.” —The New York Observer
“Always stimulating . . . An entertaining book that also deeply informs.” —Barron’s
“Entertaining, engaging, and well written . . . Highly recommended.”
—Choice
“This Poor Richard’s Almanack for the twenty-first century . . . shares both the sagacity and the witty and accessible style of its eighteenth-century predecessor.” —Law and Politics Book Review
“There are superb insights in Nudge.”
—Financial Times






PENGUIN BOOKS
NUDGE
Richard H. Thaler was awarded the 2017 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to the field of behavioral economics. He is the Charles R. Walgreen Distinguished Service Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He is a member of the National Academy of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and 