International Journal of Applied Science and Technology            Vol. 9, No. 1, March 2019             doi:10.30845/ijast.v9n1p1 
 
1 
 
Evaluating the Performance of the Erlang Models for Call Centers 
 
Thomas R. Robbins 
East Carolina University 
College of Business 
Department of Marketing and Supply Chain 
3136 Bate Building 
Greenville, NC 27858-4353, USA 
 
Abstract 
 
In this paper we evaluate two queuing models used to analyze call centers; the Erlang C and Erlang A models.  The 
Erlang C is a simple model that ignores caller abandonment and is the most commonly used model.  The Erlang A 
model allows for abandonment, but performance measures are more difficult to calculate.  We compare the theoretical 
performance predictions of these models to a steady state simulation model where many of the simplifying assumptions 
used in standard analytical models are relaxed.  Our findings support the assertion that the Erlang A model is more 
accurate, but we find that in contrast to the Erlang C model, Erlang A tends to be optimistically biased.  Our findings 
indicate that neither model clearly dominates the other in all situations and that care must be taken to select the correct 
model based on call center conditions and the intended purpose of the model. 
 
Keywords: Call Centers, Queuing Models. Simulation Analysis 
 
Introduction 
 
Call centers are examples of queuing systems; calls arrive, wait in a queue, and are then serviced by an agent.  Call 
centers are typically modeled using the M/M/N queuing model, or in industry standard terminology - the Erlang C 
model. The Erlang C model makes many assumptions which are questionable in the context of a call center 
environment.  Specifically, the Erlang C model assumes that calls arrive at a Poisson process with a known average 
rate, and that they are serviced by a defined number of statistically identical agents with service times that follow an 
exponential distribution.  Most significantly, Erlang C assumes no abandonment.  The model is used widely by both 
practitioners and academics.   
 
Recognizing the deficiencies of the Erlang C model, many papers have advocated using alternative queuing models and 
staffing heuristics which account for conditions ignored in the Erlang C model.   The most popular alternative is the 
Erlang A model, an extension of the Erlang C model that allows for caller abandonment.  For example, in a widely 
cited review of the call center literature (Gans et al., 2003) , the authors state “For this reason, we recommend the use 
of Erlang A as the standard to replace the prevalent Erlang C model.”  Another widely cited paper examines empirical 
data collected from a call center (Brown et al., 2005) and these authors make a similar statement; “using Erlang-A for 
capacity-planning purposes could and should improve operational performance. Indeed, the model is already beyond 
typical current practice (which is Erlang-C dominated), and one aim of this article is 