





“You will smile the entire time you read this book. The reflections are priceless.” —Harry K. Wong, author of The First Days of School
The Art of Teaching Children
Phillip Done









Thank you for downloading this Simon & Schuster ebook.
Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions.


CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP


Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.



















I have come to believe that a great teacher is a great artist and that there are as few as there are any other great artists. Teaching might even be the greatest of the arts, since the medium is the human mind and spirit.
—JOHN STEINBECK









Introduction
One, two, three, four, five… I continued counting on my fingers. When I stopped at thirty-three, I shook my head. It can’t be that long. Disbelieving my own fingers, I recounted them. Then my hand rose to my forehead and rubbed it. Yep, it’s thirty-three. I had just counted the number of years I’d taught children.
Teaching plays tricks with time. As the school years come and go, you don’t realize that you’re getting any older. Your students are always the same age. Their parents are always the same age too. The book characters you read about to your kids never age either. And then one day, as happened to me not too long ago, time holds its mirror in front of you when one of your third graders announces, “You taught my mom!”
I never thought about getting old—probably because my world was always young. Where did the time go? Children who once played soccer at recess are playing on high school teams now. Boys and girls who sang their hearts out during music time are performing in the high school musical. Kids who could barely write a sentence are writing essays to get into college.
I remember the very first lesson I gave when I was a student teacher. I was pretty nervous, even though I’d practiced the night before in front of the bathroom mirror. I can recall my first interview for a teaching position, wearing my dad’s tie and trying to act confident while answering questions such as “What’s your teaching philosophy?” when I really didn’t have a clue. Or a philosophy. I can also recall the day I was offered my first teaching job: a third-grade class in Sunnyvale, California—my hometown. The pay was $19,300 a year. I thought I was rich. The advice I got from a colleague at my new school was: “Don’t worry. The first twenty years are the hardest.” And I remember my first year of teaching, tiptoeing at night into the classroom next to mine and reading Mrs. Gonzales’s plan book to see what she was teaching that week. Mrs. Gonzales had been teaching forever. She claimed to have taught Abraham Lincoln.
Over time, I didn’t need to sneak into Mrs.