Physics 
Physics: A Focused Introduction provides a thorough overview of the principles and practical 
applications of introductory undergraduate physics. Featuring a streamlined narrative, it 
encourages active engagement between fundamental concepts and fully worked examples.
Major topics such as motion (kinematics, forces, and conservation of momentum and energy), 
thermodynamics, waves, optics, electricity and magnetism are covered, in addition to the foun-
dations of modern physics.
Key features:
•  More than 200 fully worked examples and 1,000 end-of-chapter problems
•  Learning Objectives at the start of each chapter
•  An appendix which introduces key mathematical content ranging from scientific notation and 
the metric system to geometry, trigonometry, and techniques for solving systems of equations
•  Calculus is introduced and used as a tool to clarify the physics; examples and problems that
require proficiency in calculus are clearly marked
•  Supported by modular lab activities developed at the University of Mount Union, detailed
lecture notes, and a comprehensive solution manual available to instructors
Written in a relaxed and engaging style, this textbook is suitable for students of science and engi-
neering who require a concise introduction to the field, as well as students of both algebra-based 
and calculus-based courses.
Colin Campbell is an Associate Professor of Physics and Data Science at the University of 
Mount Union, USA, where he teaches at all levels of the undergraduate curriculum. He earned 
his B.S. from Westminster College and his Ph.D. from the Pennsylvania State University. He has 
received multiple honors for his teaching, including the University of Mount Union’s Distin-
guished Teaching Award.
Textbook Series in Physical Sciences
This textbook series offers pedagogical resources for the physical sciences. It publishes high-quality, high-
impact texts to improve understanding of fundamental and cutting-edge topics, as well as to facilitate 
instruction. The authors are encouraged to incorporate numerous problems and worked examples, as well 
as making available solutions manuals for undergraduate and graduate level course adoptions. The format 
makes these texts useful as professional self-study and refresher guides as well. Subject areas covered in this 
series include condensed matter physics, quantum sciences, atomic, molecular, and plasma physics, energy 
science, nanoscience, spectroscopy, mathematical physics, geophysics, environmental physics, and so on, 
in terms of both theory and experiment.
Understanding Nanomaterials
Malkiat S. Johal
Concise Optics: Concepts, Examples, and Problems
Ajawad I. Haija, M. Z. Numan, W. Larry Freeman
A Mathematica Primer for Physicists
Jim Napolitano
Understanding Nanomaterials, Second Edition 
Malkiat S. Johal, Lewis E. Johnson
Physics for Technology, Second Edition: With Applications in Industrial Control Electronics
Daniel H. Nichols
Time-Resolved Spectroscopy: An Exp