





Positive Imaging
The Powerful Way to Change Your Life
Norman Vincent Peale

Gratefully and affectionately dedicated to longtime friend and associate Arthur Gordon, skilled editor and writer, with thanks for the helpful assistance he has given in the preparation of this book
Contents
Introduction
1 Imaging—What It Is and How It Works
2 How the Imaging Idea Grew
3 The Concept That Conquers Problems
4 How Imaging Helps to Bolster a Shaky Ego
5 How to Manage Money Problems
6 Use Imaging to Outwit Worry
7 Image Yourself No Longer Lonely
8 The Three Biggest Steps on the Road to Success
9 Imaging—Key to Health?
10 The Word That Undermines Marriage
11 The Healing Power of Forgiveness
12 Imaging the Tenseness out of Tension
13 How to Deepen Your Faith
14 Imaging in Everyday Life
15 The Imaging Process in Making and Keeping Friends
16 The Most Important Image of All
About the Author
A Special Note to the Reader
The pages that follow are written in the first person because to have a single narrator is said to lend clarity and unity to a book. But it is misleading because this book is the product of two minds, one masculine and one feminine. My wife, Ruth, and I have worked together for so long that neither of us can function without the other. This is as much her book as mine. It is a team effort all the way through, and I hope the reader will be conscious of that and bestow credit where it is due.
NORMAN VINCENT PEALE
Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions.
Joel 2:28
Introduction
Suppose a trusted friend came to you and said, “There’s a powerful new-old idea that people are talking about, one I think you should be aware of. It’s a concept available to all of us that can shape and change human lives for the better in an astonishing way.” What would you say?
You’d say, “Tell me about it!” wouldn’t you?
That’s what I want to do in this book—tell you about it.
The concept is a form of mental activity called imaging. It consists of vividly picturing, in your conscious mind, a desired goal or objective, and holding that image until it sinks into your unconscious mind, where it releases great, untapped energies. It works best when it is combined with a strong religious faith, backed by prayer and the seemingly illogical technique of giving thanks for benefits before they are received. When the imaging concept is applied steadily and systematically, it solves problems, strengthens personalities, improves health, and greatly enhances the chances for success in any kind of endeavor.
The idea of imaging has been around for a long time, and it has been implicit in all the speaking and writing I have done in the past. But only recently has it begun to emerge clearly and be recognized by scientists and medical authorities as additional proof that mind and body and spirit are one indivisible unit, as the Bible has been telling us all along.
Jesus Christ Himself said, “What things soever ye desi