7 
Power System Modelling for Urban Massive 
Transportation Systems 
Mario A. Ríos and Gustavo Ramos 
Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, D.C.,  
Colombia 
1. Introduction 
Urban Massive Transportation Systems (UMTS), like metro, tramway, light train; requires 
the supply of electric power with high standards of reliability. So, an important step in the 
development of these transportation systems is the electric power supply system planning 
and design. 
Normally, the trains of a UMTS requires a DC power supply by means of rectifier AC/DC 
substations, know as traction substations (TS); that are connected to the electric HV/MV 
distribution system of a city.   The DC system feeds catenaries of tramways or the third rail 
of metros, for example.  The DC voltage is selected according to the system taking into 
account power demand and length of the railway’s lines.  Typically, a 600 Vdc – 750 Vdc is 
used in tramways; while 1500 Vdc is used in a metro system.  Some interurban-urban 
systems use a 3000 Vdc supply to the trains. 
Fig. 1 presents an electric scheme of a typical traction substation (TS) with its main 
components: AC breakers at MV, MV/LV transformers, AC/DC rectifiers, DC breakers, 
traction DC breakers. As, it is shown, a redundant supply system is placed at each traction 
substation in order to improve reliability. In addition, some electric schemes allow the 
power supply of the catenaries connected to a specific traction substation (A) since the 
neighbour traction substation (B) by closing the traction sectioning between A and B and 
opening the traction DC breakers.  In this way, the reliability supply is improved and allows 
flexibility for maintenance of TS. 
So, an important aspect for the planning and design of this electric power supply is a good 
estimation of power demand required by the traction system that will determine the 
required number, size and capacity of AC/DC rectifier substations. On the other hand, the 
design of the system requires studying impacts of the traction system on the performance of 
the distribution system and vice versa.  Power quality disturbances are present in the 
operation of these systems that could affect the performance of the traction system.   
This chapter presents useful tools for modelling, analysis and system design of Electric 
Massive Railway Transportation Systems (EMRTS) and power supply from Distribution 
Companies (DisCo) or Electric Power Utilities.  Firstly, a section depicting the modelling 
and simulation of the power demand is developed. Then, a section about the computation of 
www.intechopen.com
 
Infrastructure Design, Signalling and Security in Railway 
 
180 
the placement and sizing of TS for urban railway systems is presented where the modelling 
is based on the power demand model of the previous section. After that, two sections about 
the power quality (PQ) impact of EMRTS on distribution systems and grounding design are 
presented. Both subjects make use of the l