














The School of Life






The School of Life
An Emotional Education
Introduced by Alain de Botton






 
 
Published in 2019 by The School of Life
70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB
© The School of Life 2019
Set in 11.9/15.307 pt Fournier MT Pro
Typeset by Jouve (UK), Milton Keynes
Printed in Canada
All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out, or otherwise circulated without express prior consent of the publisher. This is an anthology of materials drawn from the work of The School of Life Press and The School of Life blog: www.theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife. These materials have previously been, and may continue to be, published or otherwise made available elsewhere by the copyright holder.
The right of Alain de Botton to be identified as the author of the introduction of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs, and Patents Act 1988.
Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity.
The School of Life is a resource for helping us understand ourselves, for improving our relationships, our careers and our social lives—as well as helping us find calm and get more out of our leisure hours. We do this through creating films, workshops, books and gifts.
www.theschooloflife.com
ISBN 978-1-912891-28-3
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1






Contents
Introduction
  I : Self
 II : Others
III : Relationships
IV : Work
 V : Culture
Index






Introduction
EDUCATION
Modern societies are collectively deeply committed to education, and have in place the mechanisms needed to teach every conceivable profession and to cover every topic of enquiry. We reliably educate pilots and neurosurgeons, actuaries and dental hygienists; we offer lessons in the irregularities of the French pluperfect and textbooks on the conductive properties of metal alloys. We are not individually much cleverer than the average animal, a heron or a mole, but the knack of our species lies in our capacity to transmit our accumulated knowledge down the generations. The slowest among us can, in a few hours, pick up ideas that it took a few rare geniuses a lifetime to acquire.
Yet what is distinctive is just how selective we are about the topics we deem it possible to educate ourselves in. Our energies are overwhelmingly directed toward material, scientific, and technical subjects and away from psychological and emotional ones. Much anxiety surrounds the question of how good the next generation will be at math; very little around their abilities at marriage or kindness. We devote inordinate hours to learning about tectonic plates and cloud formations, and relatively few fathoming shame and rage.
The assumption is that emotional insight might be either unnecessary or in essence unteachable, lying beyond reason or method