Information and Software Technology 75 (2016) 71–89 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Information and Software Technology 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/infsof 
Requirements engineering for safety-critical systems: A systematic 
literature review 
Luiz Eduardo G. Martins a , ∗, Tony Gorschek b 
a Department of Science and Technology, Federal University of São Paulo, São José dos Campos, Brazil 
b Software Engineering Research Lab, Blekinge Institute of Technology, Karlskrona, Sweden 
a r t i c l e 
i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 15 October 2015 
Revised 23 March 2016 
Accepted 3 April 2016 
Available online 12 April 2016 
Keywords: 
Safety requirements 
Safety-critical systems 
Hazard 
Accident 
Systematic literature review 
Requirements engineering 
a b s t r a c t 
Context: Safety-Critical Systems (SCS) are becoming increasingly present in our society. A considerable 
amount of research effort has been invested into improving the SCS requirements engineering process as 
it is critical to the successful development of SCS and, in particular, the engineering of safety aspects. 
Objective: This article aims to investigate which approaches have been proposed to elicit, model, specify 
and validate safety requirements in the context of SCS, as well as to what extent such approaches have 
been validated in industrial settings. The paper will also investigate how the usability and usefulness of 
the reported approaches have been explored, and to what extent they enable requirements communica- 
tion among the development project/team actors in the development of SCS. 
Method: We conducted a systematic literature review by selecting 151 papers published between 1983 
and 2014. The research methodology to conduct the SLR was based on the guidelines proposed by 
Kitchenham and Biolchini. 
Results: The results of this systematic review should encourage further research into the design of studies 
to improve the requirements engineering for SCS, particularly to enable the communication of the safety 
requirements among the project team actors, and the adoption of other models for hazard and accident 
models. The presented results point to the need for more industry-oriented studies, particularly with 
more participation of practitioners in the validation of new approaches. 
Conclusion: The most relevant ﬁndings from this review and their implications for further research are as 
follows: integration between requirements engineering and safety engineering areas; dominance of the 
traditional approaches; early mortality of new approaches; need for industry validation; lack of evidence 
for the usefulness and usability of most approaches; and the lack of studies that investigate how to im- 
prove the communication process throughout the lifecycle. Based on the ﬁndings, we suggest a research 
agenda to the community of researchers and advices to SCS practitioners. 
© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 
1. Introduction 
Computing 