



Praise for Rise Up
“Rise Up inspires leaders to develop and personalize habits of resilience while empowering their teams to be creative and proactively solve problems. That’s adaptive leadership for today and tomorrow.” 
Sia Moussavi, former global executive, GE Corporation; former CEO, GE Healthcare, Korea
“Rise Up made me reflect on my own story—my own career—and helped me learn more about myself. Rise Up has the potential to send you on a transformational leadership journey, where you’ll learn from real-life stories the importance of leading by influence rather than authority; with trust rather than fear; and with awareness, care, and personal discipline. Thanks to Mike Watson and Ali Grovue for sharing their vulnerabilities, life experiences, learnings, and wisdom. Leadership is a challenge. Leadership is a personal journey. Don’t do it alone!” 
Richard Payette, director, EDC and CPAB; former CEO, Manulife Québec and BDO America
“In our fast-moving world, leaders today need more than ever to proactively address their mindsets and behaviors if they wish to successfully drive change. Rise Up provides invaluable lessons to help leaders understand the habits that work, and also the harm that can be done when their behaviors are not at their best. This a ‘must-read’ for any leader aspiring to transform themselves and their organizations for the better.” 
Madeleine Paquin, CEO, Logistec 
“Rise Up made me look in the mirror and ask myself the tough questions on how to best serve our organization.” 
Dolf DeJong, CEO, Toronto Zoo







Contents


Preface


Introduction


One Resilient Leadership


Two Motivation


Three Trust


Four Inquisitiveness


Five Humility


Six Optimism


Seven Courage


Eight Discipline


Conclusion


Acknowledgments


Notes


Index




Landmarks


Cover


Copyright Page


Table of Contents


Body Matter









One
Resilient Leadership
Mike
It is not the strongest of a species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is most adaptable to change.
Charles Darwin
Renowned futurist Gerd Leonhard refers to the twenty-	first century as the most transformational time in human 	history.1 The corporate world is in a period of perpetual disruption, punctuated by moments of crisis. Around the hallways of businesses worldwide, Darwin’s words resonate as never before. 
In these transformational times, leaders are called upon to think and act differently. Resilience—the ability to recover from, or adjust easily to, misfortune or change—is the hallmark of great leadership in the twenty-first century. So, why aren’t more leaders and more organizations resilient?
The answer to the question above is quite clear: not enough leaders have embraced the goals of a resilient leader. Through our decades of supporting companies, we have learned and accepted one universal truth: The behavior of leaders is the most important factor in determining an organization’s ability to adapt. Whether in times of crisis or 