











Contents
Copyright
Acknowledgments
A Note from Robert Kiyosaki: Why I Wrote This Book for You
PART ONE: THE CONSPIRACY
Chapter 1: Can Obama Save the World?
Chapter 2: The Conspiracy Against Our Education
Chapter 3: The Conspiracy Against Our Money: The Bank Never Goes Broke
Chapter 4: The Conspiracy Against Our Wealth
Chapter 5: The Conspiracy Against Our Financial Intelligence
PART TWO: FIGHTING BACK
Chapter 6: Where We Are Today
Chapter 7: What’s the Name of Your Game?
Chapter 8: Print Your Own Money
Chapter 9: The Secret of Success: Sell
Chapter 10: Building for the Future
Chapter 11: Financial Education: An Unfair Advantage
Chapter 12: If I Ran the School System
In Conclusion
Afterword
Conspiracy of the Rich Special Bonus Q&A
About the Author






Copyright
This publication is designed to provide competent and reliable information regarding the subject matter covered. However, it is sold with the understanding that the author and publisher are not engaged in rendering legal, financial, or other professional advice. Laws and practices often vary from state to state and if legal or other expert assistance is required, the services of a professional should be sought. The author and publisher specifically disclaim any liability that is incurred from the use or application of the contents of this book.
Copyright © 2009 by Robert T. Kiyosaki
All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced,
         distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written
         permission of the publisher.
      
“Precious Metals Bullion Stocks” graph appears with permission from the CPM Group. CPM Group is a leading commodities research
         firm. Visit 
         www.cpmgroup.com for more information.
      
“Return Performance Comparison” chart and “Gold-DJI” charts are reproduced with permission of Yahoo! Inc. ©2009 Yahoo! Inc.
         YAHOO! and the YAHOO! logo are registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc.
      
“Cone of Learning” is from Dale. Audio-Visual Methods in Teaching, 1E. © 1969 Wadsworth, a part of Cengage Learning, Inc. Reproduced by permission. 
         www.cengage.com/permissions

Published by Business Plus in association with CASHFLOW Technologies, Inc.
CASHFLOW is a trademark of CASHFLOW Technologies, Inc.


Business Plus
Hachette Book Group
237 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Visit our website at 
         www.HachetteBookGroup.com.
      

www.twitter.com/grandcentralpub

Business Plus is an imprint of Grand Central Publishing.
The Business Plus name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc.
First eBook Edition: September 2009
ISBN: 978-0-446-56817-3






Acknowledgments
My rich dad always said, “Business and investing are team sports.” The same can be said when writing a book—especially a book
         like the one you have in your hand. We have made history with Rich D