







A Message from Robert





This book is dedicated to those who step up




and become part of the solution.





A Message from Robert It’s Not Cool




I thought long and hard about sharing with you our financial success, especially during times like these. I know that millions of people have lost their jobs, their homes, and their businesses. I also know that, in most situations, it is not polite to talk about financial success. Bragging is never cool, especially about money.


Yet, I decided to write about real-life investments. I want you to understand how we gained our financial education, how we use that education, and why it is an unfair advantage, especially in a declining economy. I write not to brag. I write to encourage people to learn, study, practice, and possibly see the world differently. In 2011, there is a lot of money in the world. There are trillions of dollars looking for a home because governments of the world are printing trillions in counterfeit money, aka fiat currency. Governments do not want the world to go into a depression, so they print more funny money. This is why the price of gold and silver go up and why savers are losers.


The problem is that this phony money is in the hands of only a few people. So, the rich get richer, the poor and middle class grow poorer, the economy worsens, and the problem grows bigger.


According to the U.S. Census Bureau, poverty in America increased to nearly 15 percent of the population in September 2010. This means over 4 million people moved from the middle class into poverty, just as Donald Trump and I predicted in our book Why We Want You To Be Rich. This is dangerous. This is not healthy.


At the risk of sounding like a braggart, I decided to write this book about real-life investments. I believe it is uncool to know something and not share what I know. That would be greedy. I write because I believe we need real financial education before the world economy can truly recover. Ultimately, I write because I believe it is better to teach people to fish than to give people fish.






Robert Kiyosaki



My rich dad said,



“

Choose your teachers wisely.”


















Introduction - HOW DO YOU CATCH A MONKEY?




Natives of Africa and Asia have used this technique to catch monkeys for thousands of years: The hunter finds a tree with a small hole in the tree trunk and places fruits or nuts inside the hole. A monkey comes along, puts their fist in the hole and grabs onto the fruit or the nuts. The monkey’s fist, now clenched and filled with the fruit or nuts, cannot be withdrawn from the hole, trapping the monkey. Rather than let go of the fruits or nuts, the monkey twists and turns, pulls and tugs, but refuses to let go. The native returns, and at their leisure, kills or captures the monkey.


Humans are similar to monkeys. Rather than cling to fruits or nuts, humans cling to job security, their possessions, and money. Due to a lack of financial education, like the trap