Science 
& Mathematics
Topic
Biology
Subtopic
Biology:
The Science of Life
Course Guidebook
Professor Stephen Nowicki
Duke University
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westﬁ elds Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2004
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
i
Stephen Nowicki, Ph.D. 
Professor of Biology 
Duke University
P
rofessor Stephen Nowicki is Bass Fellow 
and Professor of Biology at Duke University, 
where he also holds appointments in the 
Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences 
and in the Neurobiology Department at Duke 
University Medical Center. He completed both his 
undergraduate work and a masters degree at Tufts 
University and received his Ph.D. from Cornell University. Prior to taking his 
position at Duke, Professor Nowicki was a postdoctoral fellow and assistant 
professor at the Rockefeller University.
Professor Nowicki has published more than 65 scholarly articles in 
academic journals, and he is co-author of the book The Evolution of Animal 
Communication: Reliability and Deceit in Signaling Systems, published 
by Princeton University Press. He has served as President of the Animal 
Behavior Society and as Chair of the Division of Animal Behavior of the 
Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology. Professor Nowicki 
introduced a thorough revision of the approach to teaching introductory 
biology at Duke University, a curricular reform effort that has received 
widespread recognition. 
Professor Nowicki has been awarded fellowships from the Mary Flagler 
Cary Charitable Trust, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the John Simon 
Guggenheim Foundation. He also is the recipient of the Robert B. Cox 
Distinguished Teaching Award from Duke University. ■
