Safety and Availability – Basic Attributes
of Safety-Related Electronic Systems
for Railway Signalling
Karol Rástočný and Emília Bubeníková(&)
University of Žilina, Univerzitná 8215/1, 010 26 Žilina, Slovak Republic
{karol.rastocny,emilia.bubenikova}@fel.uniza.sk
Abstract. At the moment, we are exposed to very rapid technological changes.
Railway industry must adequately respond to these changes. New technologies
will require new approaches, with the result that gradually there is a change of
views on processes related not only to the development of these systems but also
to their operation and maintenance. Validation that the requirements for the
dependability and safety of the safety-related electronic system for railway
signalling have been satisﬁed (i.e. parameters RAMS) is a necessary condition
for its implementation to operation. This article provides a conceptual view of
the changes in risk analysis, deﬁnition requirements for availability and safety,
and in particular, the safety evaluation safety-related electronic systems for
railway signalling.
Keywords: Signalling system  Risk  Safety  Availability
1
Introduction
Transport of passengers and goods by railway is associated with some risk as an
undesirable event that may result in personal injury, signiﬁcant material damage,
environmental damage and other adverse consequences. Various safety measures can be
used to eliminate (reduce) the occurrence of these undesirable events. Requirements for
these measures and their implementation and evaluation of their quality have always
been and are also dependent on the existing technology, knowledge and opinions.
According to [1] is a railway signalling system (RSS) considered a safety-related
system, which operates in a continuous mode of operation.
Dependability and safety are two distinct quality attributes of the RSS and must be
distinguished between them. Although these are different RSS attributes, they affect
each other and are related to each other. The dependability properties of the restored
object being (hence RSS also) are comprehensively evaluated through the availability.
There are cases where there is “overlap” of dependability and safety requirements
(e.g. safety reasons) are under the continuous mode of process control desired the
greatest possible availability of the RSS. If the RSS is capable of operation, respon-
sibility is assumed by a person, and its error rate is usually substantially greater than the
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019
J. Mikulski (Ed.): TST 2019, CCIS 1049, pp. 69–82, 2019.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-27547-1_6
failure rate of the RSS. There are also some cases where it is desirable to terminate the
service provision, which is contrary to the dependability requirement - to continuously
provide the required service. Meeting these conﬂicting requirements for safety and
availability leads to a compromise that affects the choice of the RSS architecture.
The safety and dependability features of the