Citation: Purwanto, Y.; Ruriawan,
M.F.; Alamsyah, A.; Wijaya, F.P.;
Husna, D.N.; Kridanto, A.; Nugroho,
F.; Fakhrudin, A.; Itqon, M.;
Febrianta, M.Y.; et al. Security
Architecture for Secure Train Control
and Monitoring System. Sensors 2023,
23, 1341. https://doi.org/10.3390/
s23031341
Academic Editors: Leandros
Maglaras, Helge Janicke and
Mohamed Amine Ferrag
Received: 12 December 2022
Revised: 18 January 2023
Accepted: 19 January 2023
Published: 25 January 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sensors
Article
Security Architecture for Secure Train Control and
Monitoring System
Yudha Purwanto 1,*
, Muhammad Faris Ruriawan 1, Andry Alamsyah 2
, Febry Pandu Wijaya 3,
Dewi Nala Husna 3, Agri Kridanto 3, Fiﬁn Nugroho 3, Anang Fakhrudin 3, Mu’ammar Itqon 3,
Mochamad Yudha Febrianta 2
, Sri Widiyanesti 2, Fussy Mentari 1, Alﬁan Akbar Gozali 4
and Ade Romadhony 4
1
School of Electrical Engineering, Telkom University, Jl. Telekomunikasi No. 1, Bandung 40257, Indonesia
2
School of Economics and Business, Telkom University, Jl. Telekomunikasi No. 1, Bandung 40257, Indonesia
3
Indonesian Rolling Stock Industry, Jl. Yos Sudarso No. 71, Madiun 63122, Indonesia
4
School of Applied Science, Telkom University, Jl. Telekomunikasi, Bandung 40257, Indonesia
*
Correspondence: omyudha@telkomuniversity.ac.id
Abstract: A Train Control and Monitoring System (TCMS) is a vital part of monitoring sensors in
a train. The data output of sensors is sent wirelessly to the data server for monitoring. However,
as the wireless channel used to send the data is a shared public network, the transmitted data are
prone to hackers and attacks. This paper proposes the Securebox architecture to manage secure data
transfer from the onboard Vehicle Control Unit (VCU) to the data server in TCMS. The architecture is
comprised of four main functions: network management, buffer management, data management,
and security management. The architecture has been successfully developed in an HSM (Hardware
Security Modul) and veriﬁed using alpha and beta software testing to form a secure TCMS. From the
real-time testing phase in an electric-diesel train, the average performance of the AES-based HSM
showed 55% faster time processing with unnoticed 0.1% added memory usage compared to the 3DES.
The secure TCMS also withstands MITM attack and provides end-to-end data security compared to
the (Mobile Station) MS to Base Station (BS) only in GSM-R.
Keywords: train control; monitoring system; railway security; cryptography; system architecture
1. Introduction
In addition to traditional signaling for communication between trains and dispatchers,
the railway system also requires an automated monitoring system to ensure the reliability of
the moving railway system. The Train Control and Monitor