1 
 
Project Report on 
Communication-Based Train Control 
System 
 
Submitted by 
Vaneetpal Singh 
In partial fulfillment for the award of the degree 
Master of Science in Internetworking 
(From University of Alberta) 
Under the guidance of 
Juned Noonari 
 
September 2018 – March 2019 
 
2 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The primary purpose of this report is to study different LRT components generally 
related to telecommunications/data networking such as CBTC (Communications-
Based Train Control).  
CBTC have a significant advantage over traditional signaling systems when it comes 
to the real detection position of trains on the track. Traditional methods used to 
divide the track into fixed blocks while in CBTC the block moves along with the 
train giving us more accurate position increasing the overall capacity of the trains as 
the time between two trains get reduced. Other subsystems include ATP (Automatic 
Train Protection) and ATO (Automatic Train Operation). Other components include 
interlocking which is communication of different switches and signals at the 
crossings that prevents adverse movements. 
For the report, I will be discussing train communication systems and related sub-
systems in detail. Also highlighting some of the shortcomings of these systems and 
discussing technologies practiced in today’s LRT system along with their vendors 
in brief. 
 
 
3 
 
Acknowledgment 
 
First, I want to thank the All-Powerful God without whom nothing is possible. 
I want to express my most profound appreciation to all those who provided me the 
possibility to complete my report. Special gratitude I would like to give to my project 
mentor Mr. Juned Noonari, this project could not have been possible without his 
valuable 
contribution, 
encouragement 
and 
stimulating 
suggestions. 
His 
approachability and co-operation provided me great confidence throughout this 
project. 
I am very grateful to Mr. Shahnawaz Mir for his guidance and helping me choose 
my project, his cooperation in providing all the necessary information about the pr
oject and also for his support in the project. 
I would like to thank my parents for their kind cooperation and support throughout 
my project, which has kept me motivated and helped me complete my project. 
My thanks and appreciations also go to my classmates who willingly helped me    
with their skills. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaneetpal Singh
