













About Small Habits for a Big Life
Change is not about grand statements and sweeping gestures. It is about chipping away, a bit at a time, at the habits that hold us back.
Dr Rebecca Ray knows about the power of small habits to make big changes. By introducing small changes into her own life, she transformed her career as a clinical psychologist to become one of Australia’s most effective communicators on matters of the mind. Rebecca has helped many members of her large online community and her clients do the same.
In Small Habits for a Big Life, Dr Rebecca Ray breaks down the process for her reader. She explains how we can override the part of the brain that seeks pleasure and comfort (ice cream and wine) and activate the parts that tolerate some discomfort for the sake of long-term goals (an hour of study instead of an hour of TV).
Small Habits for a Big Life clears the way for readers to embark on their own path to change and provides exactly the right amount of support along the way.


















Contents
About Small Habits for a Big Life
Title page
Contents
Dedication
Introduction
1 Self-sabotage: why do we do it?
The elephant and the rider
The cycle of self-sabotage
Reckon on resistance
2 Be clear on your why
Your values
Values vs Goals
Alignment
3 Be SMART with your goals
The SMART method
Reviewing your goals
4 Be ready to never feel ready
The myth of feeling ready
Getting comfortable with discomfort
Motivation
5 Creating and sustaining new habits
The habit cycle
Cues and rewards
6 Replenishing your willpower bucket
Expanding your bucket
Filling your bucket
Dopamine hits
7 Managing uncomfortable feelings
Toxic happiness
Avoidance
Emotional awareness
8 How to handle unhelpful thoughts
No problems
Getting unhooked
Inner acceptance
9 Support crew
Count on yourself
Count on your change community
When change challenges others
10 Getting back when you’ve gone off track
Failing forward
The prison of perfectionism
Relapse
Progress through self-compassion
Self-trust
Small affirmations for a big life
About Rebecca Ray
Also by Dr Rebecca Ray
Copyright
Newsletter








For you, dear reader, for picking up this book as a mark of willingness to shape your habits. Your commitment to your personal evolution is stunning, and I know from – personal and professional – experience that it’s never easy. It’s my privilege to be alongside you, no matter how many times it takes.








Introduction
Dear reader, it’s no small act that you’re here with these pages in your hands. It might feel small. But the intention behind you choosing this book as your next read is far from insignificant. In doing so, you are making a choice to transform the life of your future self. And that, my friend, is big. Really big.
But I’m going to go out on a limb here and say that this is not the first time you’ve made such a choice. You want something more for your future self. You’re determined to be better than you currently are, because there are things that you