4
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
ENGINEERING
4.1
REQUIREMENTS-ENGINEERING PROCESS
Requirements engineering is the subdiscipline of software engineering that is
concerned with determining the goals, functions, and constraints of software sys-
tems and the representation of these aspects in forms amenable to modeling and
analysis. The goal is to create a requirements speciﬁcation that is complete, cor-
rect, and understandable to both customers and developers. This last goal creates
somewhat of a dilemma, as it indicates the duality of purpose of requirements
documents: to provide insight for the customers to ensure the product under
development meets their needs and expectations, and as a complete representa-
tion of the functions and constraints of the system as a basis for developers. In
the real-time system domain this is further complicated by the need to represent
timing and performance constraints as well as the more readily elicited functional
requirements.
A generalized workﬂow for the requirements engineering phase is shown in
Figure 4.1, where activities are represented as smoothed rectangles and the docu-
ments resulting from those activities are rectangles. The requirements engineering
process begins with a preliminary study. This is an investigation into the motiva-
tion for the project and the nature of the problem. This investigation may consist
of stakeholder perspectives and constraints, determination of project scope and
feature priorities and, in real-time systems, some early analysis of the temporal
Some of this chapter has been adapted from Phillip A. Laplante, Software Engineering for Image
Processing, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL 2003.
Real-Time Systems Design and Analysis, By Phillip A. Laplante
ISBN 0-471-22855-9 2004 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
161
162
4
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS ENGINEERING
Preliminary
Study
Requirements
Validation
Requirements
Definition
Requirements
Elicitation
Feasibility
Report
Domain
Model
Requirements
Document
Definition of
Requirements
Requirements
Specification
Figure 4.1
The requirements-engineering process depicting documentation in rectangles and
activities in smoothed rectangles. Adapted from Sommerville [Sommerville00].
constraints imposed upon the system. One of the major deliverables of the pre-
liminary study is a feasibility report that may advise discontinuing development
of the software product. Most of the time this will not be the case, and the
preliminary study will be followed by requirements elicitation.
Requirements elicitation involves gathering requirements through a variety of
techniques that may include stakeholder interviews and questionnaires, focus
groups, workshops, and prototyping. While requirements can be expressed in
many forms ranging from standard text through mathematical formalisms, it is
usual for requirements to be represented in the form of a domain model, that
is, a model of the problem domain that may include such artifacts as use cases,
entity-relatio