See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/364416900
Standardisation Considerations for Autonomous Train Control
Chapter · October 2022
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-19762-8_22
CITATIONS
2
READS
64
3 authors:
Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects:
LCHIP: Low Cost, High Integrity Platform View project
AMASS - Architecture-driven, Multi-concern and Seamless Assurance and Certification of Cyber-Physical Systems View project
Jan Peleska
Universität Bremen
147 PUBLICATIONS   1,999 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Anne Haxthausen
Technical University of Denmark
97 PUBLICATIONS   1,396 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Thierry Lecomte
ClearSy System Engineering
54 PUBLICATIONS   418 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Thierry Lecomte on 02 November 2022.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
Standardisation Considerations
for Autonomous Train Control
Jan Peleska1(B)
, Anne E. Haxthausen2
, and Thierry Lecomte3
1 Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Bremen,
Bremen, Germany
peleska@uni-bremen.de
2 DTU Compute, Technical University of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, Denmark
aeha@dtu.dk
3 CLEARSY, Aix en Provence, France
thierry.lecomte@clearsy.com
Abstract. In this paper, we review software-based technologies already
known to be, or expected to become essential for autonomous train
control systems with grade of automation GoA 4 (unattended train
operation) in existing open railway environments. It is discussed which
types of technology can be developed and certiﬁed already today on the
basis of existing railway standards. Other essential technologies, how-
ever, require modiﬁcations or extensions of existing standards, in order
to provide a certiﬁcation basis for introducing these technologies into
non-experimental “real-world” rail operation. Regarding these, we check
the novel pre-standard ANSI/UL 4600 with respect to suitability as a
certiﬁcation basis for safety-critical autonomous train control functions
based on methods from artiﬁcial intelligence. As a thought experiment,
we propose a novel autonomous train controller design and perform an
evaluation according to ANSI/UL 4600. This results in the insight that
autonomous freight trains and metro trains using this design could be
evaluated and certiﬁed on the basis of ANSI/UL 4600.
Keywords: Autonomous train control · Standards · Certiﬁcation ·
Veriﬁcation · Validation
1
Introduction
Motivation. Recently, the investigation of autonomous trains has received
increasing attention, following the achievements of research and development
for autonomous vehicles in the automotive domain. The business cases for
autonomous train control are very attractive, in particular for autonomous
rolling stock and metro trains [23].
However, several essential characteristics of autonomous transportation sys-
tems are not addressed in the standards serving toda