REVIEW ARTICLES
Survey on Driverless Train Operation for Urban
Rail Transit Systems
Yihui Wang1 • Miao Zhang1 • Jiaqi Ma2 • Xuesong Zhou3
Received: 12 July 2016 / Revised: 30 November 2016 / Accepted: 4 December 2016 / Published online: 18 December 2016
 The Author(s) 2016. This article is published with open access at Springerlink.com
Abstract The length of metro lines with driverless train
operation (DTO) systems is increasing globally and is
predicted to triple in the next 10 years. This paper gives the
history and future trend of the DTO systems. The oppor-
tunities provided by the DTO systems, such as lower
operation costs, increased capacity, and energy efﬁciency,
are explained and the relevant research are reviewed.
Furthermore, the challenges faced by the DTO systems are
analyzed, such as safety issues, train control technology,
and emergency situations.
Keywords Driverless train operation  Urban rail transit 
Energy efﬁciency  Safety  Capacity
1 Introduction
Technical developments in the last century have made the
operation of driverless train operation (DTO) possible. For
urban rail transit systems, there is a growing trend to
employ DTO globally. As reported in the annual world
report of metro automation [1], in 2013, there are 674 km
of automated metro in operation consisting of 48 lines in 32
cities, where 40 and 32% of the automated lines are con-
centrated in Asia and Europe, respectively. In addition, the
report stated that the observatory data for new DTO pro-
jects highlight a trend for exponential growth in metro
automation and the kilometers of fully automated lines is
expected to reach over 1800 km by 2025 [1].
According to the International Electro-Technical Com-
mission (IEC) standard IEC 62290-1 [2], there is a clear
classiﬁcation of the grade of automation (GoA) for urban
rail transit systems as shown in Fig. 1:
1.
GoA 1: Non-automated train operation (NTO)
There is a driver in the cabin, who is responsible for
driving trains based on wayside or cabin signal,
opening and closing door, observing the guideway,
and stopping trains in case of emergency. In addition,
automatic train protection (ATP) system prevents
unsafe movements of trains in respect of the signals
and the train speed.
2.
GoA 2: Semi-automated train operation (STO)
Automatic train operation (ATO) system controls the
train movement by the acceleration and deceleration
commands. The movement of the train is supervised by
the ATP system. The driver in the cabin observes the
guideway and stops the train in case of a hazardous
situation. The opening and closing of doors may be
done automatically or performed by the driver.
3.
GoA 3: DTO
Compared with GoA 2, there is no driver in the cabin
to observe the guideway and stop the train in case of a
hazardous situation. There is an operation staff on
board. Safe departure of the train from a station,
including door closing, could be the responsibility of
the operation staff or may be done automatically.
& Yihui Wa