














ANXIETY







Published in 2020 by The School of Life
 
First published in the USA in 2020
 
Published in this ebook edition in 2020
 
70 Marchmont Street, London, WC1N 1AB
 
Copyright © The School of Life 2020
 
All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated without the express prior consent of the publisher.
 
A proportion of this book has appeared online at
 

www.theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife

 
Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity.
 
The School of Life is a resource for helping us understand ourselves, for improving our relationships, our careers and our social lives – as well as for helping us find calm and get more out of our leisure hours. We do this through creating films, workshops, books and gifts.
 

www.theschooloflife.com

 
Ebook edition © April 2020
 
ISBN 978-1-912891-21-4
 
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1








INTRODUCTION

 

1. How could we be anything but…?

 

2. Anxiety & evolution

 

3. Anxiety & modern times

 

4. Basic trust

 

VARIETIES OF ANXIETY

 

1. Trauma & anxiety

 

2. Self-hatred & anxiety

 

3. Triggering & anxiety

 

4. Diversionary anxiety

 

5. Reputation & anxiety

 

6. Friendship & anxiety

 

7. Communion & anxiety

 

8. Parties & anxiety

 

9. Panic attacks & anxiety

 

10. Publicity & anxiety

 

11. Plan Bs & anxiety

 

12. Love & anxiety

 

13. Sex & anxiety

 

14. Simplicity & anxiety

 

15. Overthinking & anxiety

 

16. Stoicism & anxiety

 

17. Arrival & anxiety

 

18. Detachment & anxiety

 

19. Happiness & anxiety

 

AN IDEAL LIFE FOR THE ANXIOUS








INTRODUCTION







 
HOW COULD WE BE ANYTHING BUT…?
 
It is, in a sense, astonishing that we ever manage to be anything but very concerned.
 
There is so much to which we are exposed, so many serious and unpredictable risks permanently waiting to threaten our peace of mind.
 
•      We live on a crowded planet, bathed in an atmosphere of dread, frenzy and ambition, and are forced to navigate around our vast technology-filled cities with a biological makeup better suited to a simpler, quieter, less excitable life in the savannah.
 
•      We dwell within painfully fragile physical envelopes, where something could give way at any time, a blood clot smaller than a full stop having the power to destroy us in an instant.
 
•      We are repeatedly compelled to make enormous life choices without the necessary facts and can have little clue what really awaits us around the corner.
 
•      Our long childhoods leave us open to every kind of turmoil and dislocation, our beautifully complicated minds being at risk of permanent trauma due to scars that we might have acquired before we could walk.
 
•      There is seldom sufficient time to connect with the q