1 
System Security Assessment for Safety Critical Railway Signalling 
Systems for the Thameslink Infrastructure Programme  
Nico J P Tillema* 
*Principal Design Engineer, Network Rail, Thameslink Programme, London, UK, email: nico.tillema@networkrail.co.uk 
 
 
 
Keywords: Railway signalling, cyber security, risk based 
analyses. 
Abstract 
In railway signalling there is a shift from bespoke stand-alone 
technology to commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) connected 
devices. In addition, the ownership of assets within one 
connected system has changed from one to several industry 
partners, creating a need for a common approach. In addition, 
the business impact of a potential cyber security attack has 
increased. The challenges of managing cyber security risk for 
safety-critical systems, when technology and culture changes, 
was addressed by using a quantitative assessment method. 
This was used to develop the cyber security risk register and 
to design the cyber security architecture. This paper outlines 
the approach taken by the Network Rail Thameslink 
Programme. This paper recommends use of a common 
approach for security risk management in the rail industry. 
Detailed results on the outcome of the risk assessment cannot 
be shared due to the sensitive nature of the information.  
1 Introduction 
The introduction of new technology in the railway industry 
has increased the cyber security risk for three reasons: firstly 
the shift from bespoke to commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) 
technology; secondly the shift to open standards in signalling; 
and thirdly the automation of much larger sections of railway 
in one control centre increasing the impact of an attack and 
making it more difficult to operate in degraded mode if 
required. A cyber security attack has the potential to impact 
the safety of the railway. For example delay in a systems 
response can lead to a hazardous condition. In addition, a 
cyber security attack can affect performance as the 
Thameslink Programme introduces the capability to run up to 
24 trains per hour through the core of the network. Any 
disruption has a greater impact than before in terms of train 
delay minutes, cost and reputation. Stopping trains on a 
mainline railway cost Network Rail in compensation 
payments as well as in reputation. An additional challenge is 
that, with the advent of in-cab signalling like ETCS, 
signalling equipment is now owned and managed by several 
industry partners, and not Network Rail alone.  In summary, 
there is a technology and cultural change that both increased 
the cyber security risk. 
2 Thameslink Programme Challenges 
The Thameslink corridor through London is being re-
signalled to meet future passenger demand. Conventional 
signalling cannot meet predicted levels of passenger traffic, as 
it limits train paths to 20 trains per hour. To achieve the 
required passenger flows, it is necessary to be able to robustly 
signal 24 trains per hour in each direction through the core