
















THAT LAST SUMMER












SUSANNA HERRERO













First published in 2022 by Susanna Hererro
https://susannaherrero.blogspot.com





Copyright 2022 Susanna Hererro





Translation: Virginia Cavanillas
https://vicatraducciones.blogspot.com





Editing: Lynda Lamb @ Refinery
www.refineryedits.com





Cover design and illustration: Adyma Design and Judit Mallol
Pristy’s illustrator: Taku Domguez
https://taku.es





All rights reserved. This publication may not be reproduced without prior permission of the copyright owner of this book.





All the characters in this book are fictional and any resemblance to actual persons living or dead is purely coincidental.





This book contains sexual content.

















Contents







Prologue


1995


Homecoming


1996


(Re)discovering the town and its townies


1997


The wedding cake . . . and the martinis


2002


Oh, the jellyfish. Blame the jellyfish


2004


This is the only pub in town


2005


Today is rescue day


2006


And in just one night


2007


The dawn is not that bright


2008


Like two magnets, attracting and repelling each other


2009


Truce on the high seas


2011


The redhead’s sister, who’s also a redhead


2012


Sex with strings and sex without


2012 (part two)


With him? WITH HIM?


September 2012


Shall we make it . . . darts?


December 2012


Just one “I love you”


January 2013


The whole truth and nothing but the truth


That last summer


Divorce


The wedding of the year


IB8391


So, you’re thinking of leaving without me again, huh?


Epilogue




Acknowledgments


About the Author

















When he was only eight, Alexander St. Claire moved from London to a little town in Alicante, to a summer colored with green and the music of the ‘90s. On the other side of the swimming pool, in the house across the street, lived five-year-old Priscila Cabana.

He taught her to count and to swim and to hold her breath. He colored her summers and she loved him from that first moment.

She was his angel in the darkness, his Queen of the Desert. And then one summer afternoon, she just . . . left.

Four years later, her beloved Mediterranean Sea, the sun, the water, and her brother’s wedding call Priscila back to her hometown. To her family, and the places she loves. But she also comes back to . . . Alex.

Alex, who wants nothing to do with her. Whose eyes reflect only resentment and hostility. Who is still her husband.

What happened that last summer?










For Vanessa:

For all those summers in the Mediterranean Sea. For our daily snorkeling getaways. For the walks and climbs to the Rock. For our conversations. For your support. For always being there. Just for being you.















Prologue





And the months passed, following one after another until summer arrived. That summer. A summer that had no color. No songs, either.
The only thing that went well in Priscila Cabana’s life that summer was her job. Even if it started out d