Physics
Parti
Sections I-V
Section I
Translational Motion
Section II
Forces, Circular Motion,
and Gravitation
Section III
Work and Energy
Section IV
Momentum and Torque
Section V
Periodic Motion
and Waves
1RERKELEY
•*Kr
D
R.E«V»I«E«l/ir
Specializing in MCAT Preparation
The
ERKELEY
R
• E
• V
• I
• E
• W
®
P.O. Box 40140, Berkeley, California 94704-0140
Phone:
(510)
843-8378
Internet:
MCATprep@berkeleyreview.com
(5 10)
TH E-TEST
http://www.berkeleyreview.com
The Berkeley Review® and The Berkeley Review® logo are registered trademarks of The Berkeley Review®.
This publication forTheBerkeley Review® was written, edited, and composed on a desktop publishing system
usingApple Macintosh® computers and Microsoft® Word. Pageswerecreated on the Apple LaserWrite® Pro. Line
art was created using numerous graphics programs designed For use on Macintosh computers. The majority of the
text type and display type was set in Times Roman and Palatino.
Cover Design by MacGraphics.
Copyright ©2012,2011,2010,2009,2008, 2006, 2003,2000,1997,1996,1995,1994,1993,1992 byTheBerkeley Review®.
All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the
copyright owner.
October 2010-
So you plan to become a doctor!
It is quite an admirable quest and sacrifice.
Before getting into the crux of this book, I'd like to thank you. First, I'd like to
thank you for choosing such a career path, and a life dedicated to serving
humanity. Second, I'd like to thankyou forchoosing us to help you achieve your
goal.
My sincerest hope is that this book helps make your path into medical
school just a bit easier and more successful.
What we've set out to build hereis the best physics MCAT preparation book ever.
And by best, that means a book that clearly reviews material, presents clever and
memorable mnemonics, provides unique test-taking strategies, offers plenty of
practice questions, presents thorough answer explanations, and ultimately serves
as a printed friend.
This book is the latest edition of a project that started in 1992. It has undergone
five previous revisions, although this sixth and latest one represents its biggest
change to date.
This book is the collaborative work of seven different authors
who collectively have over 10,000hoursteaching MCAT preparation to students
like yourself. Our goal was to write the book like a teacher would explain the
subject matter one-on-one to a student. We sought a diverse group of authors for
the practice questions and passages, so that you get exposed to a plethora of
different voices and styles. Your MCAT will be a compilation of passages by
different authors, so that is what we aimed to producehere.
As you prepare for the MCAT, you need to keep in mind that MCAT-level
physics is different than college-level physics. Most notably, it is in a multiple-
choice