




The Millionaire Next Door
The Surprising Secrets of America’s Wealthy
Thomas J. Stanley, Ph.D.William D. Danko, Ph.D.
 






Copyright 
The Millionaire Next Door Copyright © 1996 by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko Preface copyright © 2010 by Thomas J. Stanley Cover art to the electronic edition copyright © 2010 by RosettaBooks, LLC
All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions there of in any form whatsoever.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that neither the author nor the publisher is engaged in rendering legal, investment, accounting, or other professional services. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
All the names in the case studies contained in this book are pseudonyms.
Electronic edition published 2010 by RosettaBooks LLC, New York.ISBN Mobipocket edition: 9780795314858
 






For Janet, Sarah, and Brad—a million Christmases,a trillion Fourth of Julys–T. J. Stanley 
For my loving wife, Connie, and my dear children,Christy, Todd, and David–W. D. Danko 
 





Contents 
Tables
Preface
Introduction
1:   Meet the Millionaire Next Door
2:   Frugal Frugal Frugal
3:   Time, Energy, and Money
4:   You Aren’t What You Drive
5:   Economic Outpatient Care
6:   Affirmative Action, Family Style
7:   Find Your Niche
8:   Jobs: Millionaires versus Heirs
Acknowledgments
Appendix 1
Appendix 2
Appendix 3 





Tables 
1-1: The Top Ten Ancestry Groups of American Millionaires
1-2: The Top Fifteen Economically Productive Small Population Ancestry Groups
2-1: Prices Paid by Millionaires for Clothing and Accessories
2-2: Credit Cards of Millionaire Household Members
2-3: Contrasts among American Taxpayers
3-1: Concerns, Fears, and Worries: Dr. North vs. Dr. South
3-2: Consumption Habits: The Norths vs. the Souths
3-3: Income and Wealth Contrasts: The Norths vs. the Souths
3-4: Concerns, Fears, and Worries: PAWs vs. UAWs
3-5: Investment Planning and Demographic Contrasts: Middle-Income PAWs vs. UAWs
3-6: Hours Allocated: Dr. North vs. Dr. South
4-1: Motor Vehicles of Millionaires: Model-Year
4-2: Motor Vehicles of Millionaires: Purchase Price
4-3: Motor Vehicle Acquisition Orientations of Millionaires
4-4: Economic Lifestyles of Motor Vehicle Acquisition Types
5-1: Economic Outpatient Care Given by Affluent Parents
5-2: Receivers vs. Nonreceivers of Cash Gifts
6-1: The Likelihood of Receiving a Substantial Inheritance: Occupational Contrasts
6-2: The Likelihood of Receiving Substantial Financial Gifts: Occupational Contrasts
6-3: Mean Annual Earnings: Men vs. Women
6-4: Corporate Executive—Gifts and Inheritance
6-5: Entrepreneur—Gifts and Inheritance
6-6: Physicians—Gifts and Inheritance
7-1: Estimated Allocations of Estates Valued at $1 Million or More
7-2: Estimated Fees for Estate Services
7-3: Predicted Number an