





Contents

List of Illustrations
Acknowledgements
Note
Prologue
1 • Emotional Chameleons
2 • Crowd Smarts
3 • Breaking Bad
4 • Ordinary Heroes
5 • Bands of Brothers
6 • In It Together
7 • The Fear That Binds
8 • Together Alone
Epilogue
Notes
Selective Bibliography




















A Oneworld book
This e-book edition published by Oneworld Publications, 2014
First published in Great Britain and Australia by Oneworld Publications, 2014
Copyright © Michael Bond 2014
The moral right of Michael Bond to be identified as the Author of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988
All rights reservedCopyright under Berne ConventionA CIP record for this title is available from the British Library
ISBN 978-1-78074-344-8eISBN 978-1-78074-345-5
Typesetting and eBook by Tetragon, London
Oneworld Publications10 Bloomsbury StreetLondon WC1B 3SREngland


‌
For Jessica


‌Contents

List of Illustrations Acknowledgements Note Prologue 1 Emotional Chameleons 2 Crowd Smarts 3 Breaking Bad 4 Ordinary Heroes 5 Bands of Brothers 6 In It Together 7 The Fear That Binds 8 Together Alone Epilogue Notes Selective Bibliography 


‌‌List of Illustrations

1 Depositors gather in the rain outside the Bank of United States, December 1930. Credit: Library of Congress.2 Tahrir Square, Cairo, 11 February 2011, the day President Mubarak resigned. Credit: Al Jazeera English.3 Adolf Eichmann. Credit: Heinrich Hoffmann.4 Solomon Asch’s line experiment.5 Mural commemorating the martyrs, Gaza. Credit: Michael Bond.6 The Green Mountain Boys in council. Credit: Library of Congress.7 The Coldest Journey expedition in Antarctica. Credit: Brian Newham.8 In most West Bank towns, the only Israelis with whom Palestinians have contact are soldiers. Credit: Michael Bond.9 August Courtauld emerging from the ice cap after five months in isolation. Credit: Scott Polar Research Institute, University of Cambridge.10 Cell block in Guantanamo Bay detention camp. Credit: Sara Wood / US Army.


‌‌Acknowledgements

In addition to the many people quoted in this book who gave generously of their time, I would like to thank the following for their help or encouragement: Chloe Courtauld, Basem Fathy, Nasra Hassan, Ruth Mayer, Thomas Pyszczynski, Stephen Reicher, Karim Rizk, Sheldon Solomon, Clifford Stott, Mike Stroud, Ginette Thaler, Jeremy Webb at New Scientist, Richard Wolman, my editors at Oneworld, Mike Harpley, Kathleen McCully and Robin Dennis, and particularly my agent Bill Hamilton at A. M. Heath.
‌‌Note

All quotations are taken from interviews with the author unless otherwise specified.


‌‌Prologue

We may think we’re running the show, but most of the time it’s the other way round. The situation we are in, and particularly the people around us, hold sway over our thoughts and behaviours far more than we like to imagine.
In almost every area of our lives, we are steered by others. They influence what we wear, the music we like, the food we ea