
















‘Joyful, uplifting and transformational. This book will change your life. It changed mine.’ GEORGIE ABAY, FOUNDER OF THE GRACE TALES
‘A practical, power-packed toolkit and guide that will empower anyone seeking a whole new level of living.’VASHTI WHITFIELD, EXECUTIVE COACH, SPEAKER AND AUTHOR OF SPARTACUS AND ME
Are you ready for a clean, clear mind?
Anxiety, overwhelm and rumination can be a tough cycle to break. The 14 Day Mind Cleanse is an achievable program of simple techniques to clear out your mental clutter while introducing calm and positivity, helping you become your clearest, most grounded self.
Kick off the program with a daily meditation ritual and by tweaking your digital diet. Next, reduce multi-tasking, add a personalised morning ritual and banish ‘busy’, learning to achieve more by doing less. Finish the first week by adding techniques for positive thinking and ‘joy-riding’. Now you’re ready to apply, rinse and repeat for a second week, taking note of what’s working and what’s not.
Internationally renowned speaker and meditation teacher Jacqui Lewis has been educating individuals, groups and leading organisations in higher-grade living for years via her school The Broad Place. In The 14 Day Mind Cleanse she offers a modern pocket guide to the program she has seen transform the lives of her students.










Jacqui Lewis is a writer, educator, speaker and co-founder of The Broad Place, a globally focused school sharing ancient knowledge and modern neuroscience, tools and experiences for mindful living. Known for her practical and humorous approach, she leads individual and corporate workshops around Australia and the world.





































introduction
why you will love a clean, clear mind
before you begin
understanding the mind–body connection
WEEK 1 build skills
DAY 1 mind cleanse meditation
DAY 2 power down hour
DAY 3 reduce mashing
DAY 4 morning ritual
DAY 5 banish busy
DAY 6 mind nutrition
DAY 7 joy ride
WEEK 2 deep cleanse
DAY 8–14  full menu
conclusion
resources
thanks






















‘A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.’
→ LAO TZU, PHILOSOPHER
These days, the idea of cleansing our bodies has become normalised. Juice cleanses and detox diets are abundantly and enthusiastically adopted. More than ever before, we are taking excellent care of our bodies. There are apps, trainers, nutritionists, physiotherapists, kinesiologists, massage therapists and more to help our bodies be at their best. And I think we can all agree that strong, resilient bodies that are cleansed and healthy – and not filled with toxicity – are great things.
But what about our minds, which govern not just our mental health but also our physical health? How are we cleansing these? What can we do to ensure our minds are in top shape? What about the nutritional value of what we are feeding our minds? And what about the old, outdated crap that’s stored in our dusty mental cupboards and emotiona