Building a Better 
Vocabulary
Professional
Topic
Communication 
Skills
Subtopic
Professor Kevin Flanigan
West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Course Guidebook
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westfields Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2015
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
i
Kevin Flanigan, Ph.D.
Professor of Education 
West Chester University of Pennsylvania
P
rofessor Kevin Flanigan is a Professor of 
Education in the Literacy Department at 
West Chester University of Pennsylvania, 
where he has taught since 2003. He is a Phi Beta 
Kappa graduate of Mary Washington College (now 
the University of Mary Washington), where he 
received a B.A. in History, summa cum laude. Later, he received an M.Ed. 
from James Madison University and an M.Ed. in Reading Education from 
the University of Virginia. After working as a middle grades classroom 
teacher and reading specialist, he received his Ph.D. in Reading Education 
from the University of Virginia, with a dissertation on emergent readers’ 
developing concept of word in text.
Professor Flanigan’s research, publications, and presentations focus on 
developmental word knowledge, vocabulary development and instruction, 
and interventions for students who struggle with literacy skills. He has 
presented frequently at national and international conferences and works 
with schools and teachers to implement effective literacy instruction. 
In 2011, Professor Flanigan was nominated for the U.S. Professors of the 
Year Award by West Chester University. In 2009, Professor Flanigan and 
his colleagues received an Educator 500 award for innovative teaching in 
the Kennett Experience, a university–public school partnership. Professor 
Flanigan teaches graduate and undergraduate literacy education courses and 
works in the West Chester University Reading Center, where he supervises 
graduate-level teachers as they work with students in kindergarten through 
12th grade who struggle with literacy skills. 
3URIHVVRU )ODQLJDQ LV ¿UVW DXWKRU RI WKH FRDXWKRUHG ERRN Words Their 
Way with Struggling Readers: Word Study for Reading, Vocabulary, and 
Spelling Instruction, Grades 4–12. He is also coauthor of Vocabulary Their 
