







FIRESIDE
Rockefeller Center
1230 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10020
www.SimonandSchuster.com
Copyright 1952, 1956 by Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Copyright renewed © 1980 by Norman Vincent Peale
All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form. 
First Fireside Edition 2003
FIRESIDE and colophon are registered trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication data is available. 
Acknowledgment  is  made  to  Sermon  Publications,  Inc.,  for  permission  to reprint  certain  excerpts  from  “Self-Improvement  Handbook,”  “What’s  Your Trouble?” and the “How Card” series by Norman Vincent Peale. 
ISBN 0-7432-5430-9
eISBN: 978-0-743-25430-4
Visit us on the World Wide Web: http://www.SimonSays.com
 Dedicated  to  my  brothers  Robert  Clifford  Peale,  M.D.,  F.I.C.S  and  The Reverend Leonard Delaney Peale Effective Helpers of Mankind
Contents
Preface
Introduction
1. Believe in Yourself
2. A Peaceful Mind Generates Power
3. How to Have Constant Energy
4. Try Prayer Power
5. How to Create Your Own Happiness
6. Stop Fuming and Fretting
7. Expect the Best and Get It
8. I Don’t Believe in Defeat
9. How to Break the Worry Habit
10. Power to Solve Personal Problems
11. How to Use Faith in Healing
12. When Vitality Sags, Try This Health Formula
13. Inflow of New Thoughts Can Remake You
14. Relax for Easy Power
15. How to Get People to Like You
16. Prescription for Heartache
17. How to Draw upon That Higher Power
Epilogue
Preface
At  the  time  I  wrote  this  book  it  never  occurred  to  me  that  more  than  two million copies would be sold in various hardcover editions and that it would one  day  attract  a  vast  new  readership  through  a  paperback  edition  such  as this. Frankly, however, my gratitude for this event is not from the viewpoint of  books  sold,  but  in  terms  of  the  many  persons  to  whom  I  have  been privileged to suggest a simple, workable philosophy of living. 
The dynamic laws which the book teaches were learned the hard way by trial and  error  in  my  personal  search  for  a  way  of  life.  But  I  found  in  them  an answer to my own problems and, believe me, I am the most difficult person with  whom  I  have  worked.  The  book  is  my  effort  to  share  my  spiritual experience, for if it helped me, I felt it might also be of help to others. 
In formulating this simple philosophy of life I found my own answers in the teachings of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  merely  tried  to  describe  those  truths  in  the language and thought  forms  understandable  to  present  day  people.  The  way of  life  to  which  this  book  is  a  witness  is  very  wonderful.  It  is  not  easy. 
Indeed, it often is hard, but it is full of joy and hope and victory. 
I well recall the day I sat down to begin writing the book. I knew that the best work required more ability than I possessed and therefore I needed help that only  God  could  give.  My  wife  