










Praise for Think and Grow Rich!
“Think and Grow Rich! has had a tremendous impact on my life. My company, Contours Express, would not exist if not for this book. And now, seven years, 15 additional readings, and more than 350 fitness centers later, I still find new personal and business applications each time I read it. Without question this is the greatest business book ever written.”
—Daren Carter founder of Contours Express fitness centers, located in six countries
“Dr. Hill’s original work transformed the 20th century. This newly revised version will do the same for the 21st century. No writer, thought leader or guru of personal growth and development comes close to Napoleon Hill. This landmark work takes his stature to an even more monumental level.”
—Bill Brooks, author of The New Science of Selling and Persuasion
“'I read it every two or three years to keep my drive going.'”
—Daymond John, founder and CEO of FUBU apparel and co-star of ABC TV’s Shark Tank
“The cogent advice articulated by Napoleon Hill is as relevant and pertinent today as the day it was written.”
—Donald R. Keough, former President and CEO of Coca-Cola, Chairman of Allen & Company, Inc.
“Think and Grow Rich!…Buy it…you have a book. Read it…you have the blueprint. Do it…you have the world!”
—Cactus Jack Barringer, entrepreneur, inventor, salesman extraordinaire
“It took me 17 years to become World Champion, but I always knew, deep down, that I would win the ‘big one’ someday. Napoleon Hill's Think And Grow Rich! changed my life. It inspired and excited me, and with the belief in myself I received through its pages, I, too, passed the ‘'persistence’ test and achieved my lifetime goal. This life-changing book will help you achieve your goals too!”
—Peter Ebdon, World Snooker Champion
“I must have read that book 100 times while in training, and I became a stronger person for it….Think and Grow Rich! changed my life dramatically. I was going to fight Muhammad Ali. I was a green fighter, but yet I won, all through reading this book.”
—Ken Norton, world heavyweight boxing champion famous for his trilogy of bouts with Ali
“This book is a national treasure, the ultimate guidebook to success. It should be mandatory reading in every school. It takes ‘the dream’ out of the American dream and makes finding it a reality accessible to everybody. This book unlocks the hidden potential in all of us and helps us access unlimited opportunity. It is my bible!”
—Catherine Oxenberg, film and television actress, Harvard University alumna who starred in the prime-time soap opera Dynasty, The Royal Romance of Charles and Diana, and The Omega Code
“Think and Grow Rich! is a book that changed every aspect of my life. This new edition is exciting and is one that folks should read, study and share with people they love. I’m buying multiple copies for people that I love. Our team produced multiple millionaires using these principles, and money was not even the greatest benefit. Buy the book