
















In memory of Amos Tversky












Contents


 




Introduction




 

Part I. Two Systems

 




1. The Characters of the Story




 




2. Attention and Effort




 




3. The Lazy Controller




 




4. The Associative Machine




 




5. Cognitive Ease




 




6. Norms, Surprises, and Causes




 




7. A Machine for Jumping to Conclusions




 




8. How Judgments Happen




 




9. Answering an Easier Question




 

Part II. Heuristics and Biases

 




10. The Law of Small Numbers




 

 <5>





11. Anchors




 




12. The Science of Availability




 




13. Availability, Emotion, and Risk




 




14. Tom W’s Specialty




 




15. Linda: Less is More




 




16. Causes Trump Statistics




 




17. Regression to the Mean




 




18. Taming Intuitive Predictions




 

Part III. Overconfidence

 




19. The Illusion of Understanding




 




20. The Illusion of Validity




 




21. Intuitions Vs. Formulas




 




22. Expert Intuition: When Can We Trust It?




 




23. The Outside View




 




24. The Engine of Capitalism




 

Part IV. Choices





25. Bernoulli’s Errors




 




26. Prospect Theory




 




27. The Endowment Effect




 




28. Bad Events




 




29. The Fourfold Pattern




 




30. Rare Events




 




31. Risk Policies




 




32. Keeping Score




 




33. Reversals




 




34. Frames and Reality




 

Part V. Two Selves

 




35. Two Selves




 




36. Life as a Story




 




37. Experienced Well-Being




 




38. Thinking About Life




 




Conclusions




 







Appendix A: Judgment Under Uncertainty







 




Appendix B: Choices, Values, and Frames




 




Acknowledgments




 




Notes




 




Index




 
 










Introduction


 
Every author, I suppose, has in mind a setting in which readers of his or her work could benefit from having read it. Mine is the proverbial office watercooler, where opinions are shared and gossip is exchanged. I hope to enrich the vocabulary that people use when they talk about the judgments and choices of others, the company’s new policies, or a colleague’s investment decisions. Why be concerned with gossip? Because it is much easier, as well as far more enjoyable, to identify and label the mistakes of others than to recognize our own. Questioning what we believe and want is difficult at the best of times, and especially difficult when we most need to do it, but we can benefit from the informed opinions of others. Many of us spontaneously anticipate how friends and colleagues will evaluate our choices; the quality and content of these anticipated judgments therefore matters. The expectation of intelligent gossip is a powerful motive for serious self-criticism, more powerful than New Year resolutions to improve one’s decision making at work and at home.
To be a good diagnostician, a physician needs to acquire a large set of labels for diseases, each of which binds an idea of the illness and its 