










Tim’s book is a compelling read for anyone interested in learning about resilience at the coalface, based on real-life stories and tried and tested lessons about how to manage pressure, stress and adversity. Tim takes the reader through an incredible range of experiences in some ferociously challenging situations, drawing out lessons which uncover important human traits and behaviours that can be applied to almost any personal or professional situation. 
Cath Bishop – author of The Long Win 
I loved this book. Some really practical tools to enable you to face those challenges head on.
Mandy Hickson – author of An Officer Not a Gentleman 
Practical tips to help anybody learn, improve and develop. This book will make a positive impact on your mindset, and help you bring a solutions-focused mindset to any challenge you face. It is unlikely you will face enemy fire, experience an earthquake whilst on the side of Mount Everest or attempt to tackle a stage of the Tour de France. But the lessons Tim shares from his diverse experiences can help you when facing your own enemy, mountain or gruelling endurance event. Tim can because he decided he can. Can you?
Colin Gregor – Scottish Rugby 7’s Captain













First published in Great Britain by Practical Inspiration Publishing, 2022
© Tim Bradshaw, 2022
The moral rights of the author have been asserted
ISBN 9781788603027 (print)
	9781788603041 (epub)
	9781788603034 (mobi)
All rights reserved. This book, or any portion thereof, may not be reproduced without the express written permission of the author.
Every effort has been made to trace copyright holders and to obtain their permission for the use of copyright material. The publisher apologizes for any errors or omissions and would be grateful if notified of any corrections that should be incorporated in future reprints or editions of this book.







To Dad, whose mantra was ‘KBO’. I will, Dad.






CONTENTS
Introduction: Making it work
Part 1: Focus on using intelligence, not information
Part 2: Continually evaluate the situation
Part 3: Relieve pressure to increase performance 
Part 4: Build resilience by explaining the “In order to…”
Part 5: Focus on the people first
Conclusion: Think in circles and select the right tool for the job
About the author






INTRODUCTION: MAKING IT WORK
Have you ever been presented with a challenge that on the one hand is exciting and yet on the other fills you with dread and self-doubt? Have you ever been offered an opportunity either at work or at home that will require you to step firmly outside of your comfort zone? This book gives you a toolkit that will help you accept those challenges and rise to those opportunities. It won’t make the challenge any easier or less daunting, but it will enable you to create resilience and overcome the hurdles that stand in your way.
If you’re like me, when you’re faced with a challenge, your initial reaction is to catalogue all the entirely practical reasons why you a