 
 
2 
Topological Analysis of Tokyo  
Metropolitan Railway System 
Takeshi Ozeki 
Faculty of Science and Technology, Sophia University 
Japan 
1. Introduction 
1.1 Railway system reflects the real world 
Leading concept of the topological analysis of railway network systems is based on the fact 
that the topology of railway networks reflects the real world. It is believed because strong 
mutual interactions between railway systems and real worlds continue through longer 
periods of their growth: An eventual growth in a regional economy due to opening such a 
new shopping plaza may require extension of a railway system, verves, a scheduled 
extension of a railway may result in a growth in regional economy due to rapid increase in 
town population, for instance. In this way, the growth of railway system and regional 
activity affects their growth mutually. In context, the railway system topology reflects the 
real world: In other words, they “entangle” each other.  
This leading concept agrees with that of Brin and Page, co-founders of Google:  they 
reported, in their first paper on “Google”(Page and et al, 1990), that it was a great surprise 
the PageRank is obtained purely mechanically from the topology of Web page links. Their 
surprise is the discovery of the fact that the network is entangled with real world. The 
“Google” approximates a Web surfer as a random walker in Markov process and combines 
the dominant eigenvector of Markov process with a list of coincidence for a inquiry as the 
PageRank (Langville-Mayer, 2006) 
This leading concept grows up as a mathematical platform using multimodal non-linear 
Markov process approximation so that it is applied to analyse Tokyo Metropolitan Railway 
System.  
It is no doubt that there have been established platforms to analyse the dynamics of railway 
network systems based on growing supercomputer power. On contrary, our platform can be 
said as providing abstractive viewpoint based only on network topology so that it is 
expected to illustrate different new worlds for the railway system engineers.     
1.2 Family network approximation: Rosary network 
Network topologies have been discussed as scale free networks mainly in a field of complex 
systems from the end of the previous century. The scale free network science is expected to 
provide potential methods to analyse various network characteristics of complex systems. 
www.intechopen.com
 
Infrastructure Design, Signalling and Security in Railway 
 
26
However, there is no network model suitable for analysing railway systems. Then, the 
rosary network in series of family the network was proposed as suitable one for railway 
system networks as shown in Fig.1.1 (Ozeki, 2006). 
 
Fig. 1.1. Family network Series including Rosary Networks 
Historical flows of complex systems are very interesting competitions between abstraction 
and computation: Origin of complex systems was introduced by Prigogine based on 
coupled nonlinear differential equations