













Praise for Toxic Positivity
“I’ll be forever changed by Toxic Positivity—before offering words of validation, I will choose what I say wisely. Whitney Goodman’s book unlocks the difference between being helpful and harmful. This trailblazing book will help you transform your perspective about positivity.”
—Nedra Glover Tawwab, bestselling author of Set Boundaries, Find Peace
“Sorely needed . . . Whitney Goodman elegantly weaves together her personal and clinical experience, academic research, and practical advice to offer us a refreshing antidote to the seemingly innocuous but ultimately harmful message of ‘good vibes only.’”
—Iris McAlpin, trauma professional
“Whitney Goodman’s Toxic Positivity is a much-needed breath of fresh air in the self-help space. It’s the validation we’ve all been needing in order to fully understand the normal challenges that accompany our lives.”
—Todd Baratz, LMHC, psychotherapist
“Living an authentic life means facing hard times and growing through them, not pretending things are perfect when they’re not. This book provides a much-needed road map for being honest with ourselves and others in order to be truly present in our own lives and grow as a whole person.”
—Scott Barry Kaufman, PhD, host of The Psychology Podcast and author of Transcend
“Finally a book that explains exactly why ‘positivity at all costs’ backfires, and teaches us how to process our pain instead of pretending it doesn’t exist. Toxic Positivity is the antidote to superficial pop-psychology inspo, illustrating the limits of positive thoughts and gratitude, encouraging us to embrace life’s ups and downs, and giving us more realistic and helpful ways to implement ‘positivity.’ Funny isn’t, it? Stop chasing happiness and you may end up a little . . . happier.”
—Caroline Dooner, author of Tired as F*ck
“If you’ve ever felt like something is wrong with you because you’re having a hard time and can’t seem to ‘just get over it,’ this book will help you understand why. Moreover, Toxic Positivity teaches you what to do when witnessing the struggles of others—it will help you to be a better friend, parent, colleague, or partner when someone you love is having a difficult time. This book is the counterbalance to a world that preaches ‘look on the bright side’ whenever life gets tough.”
—Elizabeth Earnshaw, LMFT, relationship expert and author of I Want This to Work























TarcherPerigee
an imprint of Penguin Random House LLC
penguinrandomhouse.com
Copyright © 2022 Whitney Goodman
Penguin supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin to continue to publish books for every reader.
TarcherPerigee with tp colophon is a reg