










www.TurboMotivation.com






Praises for Turbo Motivation
An uplifting book on igniting one’s inner energy to supercharge and sustain motivation! Turbo Motivation introduces us to the treasure of our own innate motivation and guides us to transform it into unlimited energy. A definite must-read for all readers on the journey of self-improvement and for leaders who want to inspire their employees to do their best!
– Dr Kong Jing Wen
Consultant Family Physician
This book came aptly at a crossroad in my life as I was reflecting upon my life and career goals. I was glued to the pages upon reading the first one!
The first part gives a concise yet comprehensive view of extrinsic versus intrinsic motivation and how we can evaluate our current personal motivation level. This is incredibly useful for anyone who wants to identify and align our major motivating factors to the goals we want to achieve. Next, the second part deftly introduces the variety of factors to feeling demotivated and clearly delineates the action steps to overcome these demotivating factors. The scenarios illustrated are personable, down-to-earth, and wholly relatable to everyday life, which helps me to appreciate the subsequent actions I need to take to overcome these “motivation traps”. Indeed, the last part of the book delves into a myriad of wondrous, ready-touse, street-smart strategies to stay super motivated. The crowning jewel of the book is the CAMP1 method which is a superb framework on empowering yourself with instant drive.
I highly recommend getting this book—it’s a treasure trove of solutions for you to get the “vroom” back in your motivation engine, turbocharge it, and start roaring on your journey to achieve your goals!
– Dr Sophie Cai
Dermatologist
There is no better way of learning about motivation than from two highly successful individuals—one a university professor and another a senior consultant in medicine. Master their highly practical tips and supercharge your progress, be it in your studies or your career!
– Dr Chung Pin Soon
Family Physician
Bethesda Medical Center
If you are seeking clarity on your motivational style and would like to learn tips and tricks on how to hack your life and super-boost your motivation levels, this book is written for you! The authors have thoughtfully broken down the abstract topic into digestible, bite-size pieces, with many personal strategies that you can easily adapt for your own use. Explore deeply within yourself as you work on the questionnaires and guiding questions. Discover the underlying factors behind what drives you, what hinders you, and learn how to “unstick” yourself and how to propel forward to achieve new heights. My personal favourite is the chapter dedicated to Newton’s Laws of Motivation—a simple, yet important reminder on how to stay motivated and achieve happiness in my everyday life!
– Liu Yuchun, PhD
Junior Principal Investigator
Turbo Motivation is a book that lives up to its title. This book