














Table of Contents
Twelve-Day Lover (Thirtyish and Single, #1)
Twelve-Day Lover: | A Romantic Comedy
Chapter One
Chapter Two
Chapter Three
Chapter Four
Chapter Five
Chapter Six
Chapter Seven
Chapter Eight
Chapter Nine
Chapter Ten
Chapter Eleven
Chapter Twelve
Chapter Thirteen
Chapter Fourteen
Chapter Fifteen
Chapter Sixteen
Chapter Seventeen
Chapter Eighteen
Chapter Nineteen
Chapter Twenty
Epilogue






The man I want to marry doesn't like virgins? Not a problem...
33-year-old Fleur is on a secret mission: lose her V-card, turn herself into a femme fatale in 12 days, and win a tycoon's heart at Foxtown's Yuletide Ball.
Fleur is all ready to hire a man for her, um, needs...when Russian billionaire Julian Alexeyev volunteers himself for the task. 
They say the devil you know is the lesser of two evils, but what if the all-too-arrogant and impossibly seductive Julian turns out to be the exception? All Fleur wants is to shed her innocence, but Julian might also end up stealing her heart.






 Twelve-Day Lover: 
A Romantic Comedy
by Marian Tee
Copyright 2021 by Streak Digital Publishing
All rights reserved. This book or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written permission of the publisher except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.
All characters appearing in this work are fictitious. Any resemblance to real persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.






 Chapter One
Operation Yuletide begins in 3...2...1. 
Fleur sashayed into the ballroom with her usual sass, and waiting photographers were quick to take notice. Photos of the Dutch heiress were always in demand, and unlike most socialites, Fleur was always game to strike a pose.
She gave them exactly fifty seconds before blowing them a kiss goodbye and laughingly begging off when they started asking her questions about her personal life. Handling the paps was one of her God-given talents, and Fleur had long used it to her advantage in order to work PR magic for the family business.
Thousands of lights twinkled above her head as she slowly descended the grand staircase, all of them fashioned like stars falling from a ceiling adorned with a rainbow assortment of dried flowers. In the months leading to Paradijs' official opening, the establishment had been marketed as Eden in the city. And since Fleur was one of the lucky few to have enjoyed an exclusive, early-access tour of Paradijs, she knew firsthand that the place deserved every bit of the hype surrounding it.
Familiar faces surrounded her as soon as she reached the landing, and she allowed her lips to curve into a smile that revealed none of her thoughts. Even though she knew most people assumed she was merely another rich dumb blonde, Fleur liked to play it safe all the same. It was simply how she was raised, having been cursed blessed to be one of the younger sisters of Willem de Konigh.
Air kisses and Thanksgiving greetings were exchanged, and thro