Autonomous Intelligent
Systems
Tang et al. Autonomous Intelligent Systems            (2022) 2:25 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43684-022-00043-1
O R I G I N A L A R T I C L E
Open Access
Urban rail transit FAO system: technological
development and trends
Tao Tang1, Wentao Liu1, Shukui Ding3, Chunhai Gao4 and Shuai Su1,2*
Abstract
This paper introduces the worldwide history of fully automatic operation (FAO) system in urban rail transit, followed
by the development status in China. Then, the architecture and characteristics of the FAO system are described, and
the analysis method of system design requirements is proposed based on the human factors engineering. The key
technologies are introduced from the aspects of signaling system, vehicle system, communication system, traﬃc
integrated automation system and reliability, availability, maintainability, and safety (RAMS) assurance. Furthermore,
based on the independent practical experience of the FAO system, this paper summarizes the management
methods for the construction and operation of FAO lines and prospects its future development trends toward a
more intelligent urban rail transit system.
Keywords: Urban rail transit, Fully automatic operation, Independent innovation, Intelligent rail transit system
1 Introduction
The fully automatic operation (FAO) system is a new gen-
eration of train control system in urban rail transit that au-
tomates the whole process of train operation based on ad-
vanced technologies such as modern computer, commu-
nication, control and system integration [1]. The FAO sys-
tem is of great signiﬁcance for further improving the safety
and eﬃciency of urban rail transit, reducing operational
costs, and improving the automation and intelligence level
of the equipment. As shown in Fig. 1, the International
Union of Public Transport deﬁnes the grade of automa-
tion (GoA) of train operation into four grades [2]. Both
the GoA3 and GoA4 are collectively referred to as FAO.
The diﬀerence is that there are crew attendants on trains
to monitor the closing of train doors and handle inter-
ference events with GoA3. Trains running with GoA4 do
not require on-board crew attendants, which is highly au-
tonomous and unmanned. When a fault or failure occurs,
*Correspondence: shuaisu@bjtu.edu.cn
1State Key Laboratory of Rail Traﬃc Control and Safety, Beijing Jiaotong
University, Beijing, 100044, China
2Frontiers Science Center for Smart High-speed Railway System, Beijing
Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China
Full list of author information is available at the end of the article
the ground personnel will be sent to the train to deal with
it [3]. The FAO system has the following advantages com-
pared to the Communication Based Train Control (CBTC)
system. From the technical aspect, the FAO technology
improves the automation level of the urban rail transit sys-
tem, which reduces the labor intensity of operators and hu-
man errors. Moreover, the FAO technology increases the
uniformity of t