



















Begin Reading
Table of Contents
Newsletters
Copyright Page
In accordance with the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, the scanning, uploading, and electronic sharing of any part of this book without the permission of the publisher constitute unlawful piracy and theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), prior written permission must be obtained by contacting the publisher at permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights.


























Thank you for buying this ebook, published by Hachette Digital.
To receive special offers, bonus content, and news about our latest ebooks and apps, sign up for our newsletters.


Sign Up


Or visit us at hachettebookgroup.com/newsletters



For more about this book and author, visit Bookish.com.








Copyright
Copyright © 2014 by Walter Mischel
Cover design by Kapo Ng
Cover copyright © 2014 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.
All rights reserved. In accordance with the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, the scanning, uploading, and electronic sharing of any part of this book without the permission of the publisher constitute unlawful piracy and theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), prior written permission must be obtained by contacting the publisher at permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights.
Little, Brown and Company
Hachette Book Group
237 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017
littlebrown.com
twitter.com/littlebrown
facebook.com/littlebrownandcompany
First ebook edition: September 2014
Little, Brown and Company is a division of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The Little, Brown name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc.
The Hachette Speakers Bureau provides a wide range of authors for speaking events. To find out more, go to hachettespeakersbureau.com or call (866) 376-6591.
The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher.
The illustration here, “Clown Box,” courtesy of Walter Mischel, published in W. Mischel, “Processes in delay of gratification,” in Advances in experimental social psychology, vol. 7, edited by L. Berkowitz (New York: Elsevier, 1974), 252.  The illustration here, “Future Self Continuity Scale,” from H. Ersner-Hershfield and others, “Don’t stop thinking about tomorrow: Individual differences in future self-continuity account for saving,” Judgment and Decision Making 4, no. 4 (2009): 280-286. Used with permission. The illustration here, “Retirement allocation, current versus retirement-aged self,” courtesy of Hal E. Hershfield; avatar created by Chinthaka Herath. The illustration here, “IF-THEN profiles for Jimmy and Anthony,” created from data in Y. Shoda, W. Mischel, and J. C. Wright, “Intra-individual stability in the organization and patterning of behavior: Incorporating psychological situations