Guide to Achieving 
Functional Safety in 
Railway Software
How to Satisfy EN 50128 Requirements
T E C H N I C A L  W H I T E PA P E R
Guide to Achieving Functional Safety in Railway Software
Whitepaper
2
INTRODUCTION
With the growing reliance on software components in embedded systems, quality has become 
an ever-increasing concern. Long-standing quality strategies, such as testing with a debugger, are 
no longer efficient or sufficient. To further complicate matters, many developers cannot readily 
run a test program in the actual deployment environment because they lack access to the final 
system hardware. To address these challenges, code quality needs to be addressed throughout the 
development lifecycle using a synergy of proven techniques for early defect prevention, assisted by 
automation for implementation and monitoring.
Software for mechatronic implementations is becoming increasingly complex, raising the risks of 
systematic and random hardware failures. The EN 50128 standard includes guidance for reducing 
these risks to a tolerable level by providing feasible requirements and processes for the software 
aspect of railway applications. C/C++test, Parasoft’s development testing solution for C and C++ 
software, not only facilitates the application of EN 50128, it also enables teams to produce better code 
for embedded systems, test it more efficiently, and consistently monitor progress towards their quality 
goals. With Parasoft, quality activities, such as static analysis, unit and component testing, coverage 
analysis, and more, are automated throughout the development cycle, including on the software 
engineer’s desktop to prevent the injection of coding patterns associated with software defects.
Analysis results, test data, coverage, and other quality metrics generated during manual and fully 
automated execution within regression and continuous integration environments can also be sent 
to DTP, Parasoft's reporting and anlytics platform. DTP collects code analysis and quality data, 
correlates it with other data generated throughout the development lifecycle, and returns intelligent, 
actionable SDLC analytics that enable you to implement a true defect prevention strategy.
This paper describes how Parasoft can help software development teams meet requirements for 
particular SIL levels as defined by the EN 50128 standard.
Guide to Achieving Functional Safety in Railway Software
Whitepaper
3
ABOUT EN 50128
EN 50128 is part of a group of related European Standards that define requirements for railway 
applications. Other standards in the group are:
	»
EN 50126 “The Specification and Demonstration of Reliability, Availability, Maintainability and 
Safety (RAMS)”
	»
EN 50129 “Communication, Signaling and Processing Systems – Safety-Related Electronic Systems 
for Signaling”
EN 50128 is titled, “Communication, Signaling and Processing Systems - Software for Railway Control 
and Protection Systems” and specifically addresses the softw