HAL Id: hal-01345425
https://inria.hal.science/hal-01345425
Submitted on 22 Sep 2016
HAL is a multi-disciplinary open access
archive for the deposit and dissemination of sci-
entific research documents, whether they are pub-
lished or not.
The documents may come from
teaching and research institutions in France or
abroad, or from public or private research centers.
L’archive ouverte pluridisciplinaire HAL, est
destinée au dépôt et à la diffusion de documents
scientifiques de niveau recherche, publiés ou non,
émanant des établissements d’enseignement et de
recherche français ou étrangers, des laboratoires
publics ou privés.
ns-3 Based Framework for Simulating Communication
Based Train Control (CBTC) Systems
Abdulhalim Dandoush, Alina Tuholukova, Sara Alouf, Giovanni Neglia,
Sebastien Simoens, Pascal Derouet, Pierre Dersin
To cite this version:
Abdulhalim Dandoush, Alina Tuholukova, Sara Alouf, Giovanni Neglia, Sebastien Simoens, et al.. ns-
3 Based Framework for Simulating Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) Systems. Workshop
on ns-3 (WNS3 ’16), Jun 2016, Seattle, WA, United States. pp.116-123, ￿10.1145/2915371.2915378￿.
￿hal-01345425￿
ns-3 Based Framework for Simulating Communication Based Train Control
(CBTC) Systems
Abdulhalim Dandoushy, Alina Tuholukova, Sara Alouf, Giovanni Neglia
Inria, Sophia Antipolis, France
name.surname@inria.fr
Sebastien Simoens, Pascal Derouet, Pierre Dersin
Alstom Transport, France
name.surname@transport.alstom.com
Abstract
In a Communication Based Train Control System (CBTC), a
central zone controller server (ZC) exchanges signaling mes-
sages with on-board carborne controllers (CC) inside the
trains through a wireless technology. The ZC calculates and
sends periodically to each train its Limit of Movement Au-
thority (LMA), i.e. how far the train can proceed. A CC
triggers an emergency break (EB) if no message is received
within a certain time interval to avoid collision. Clearly, it is
not desired to have an EB due to signaling messages losses
(called spurious EB) and not to real risks for the trains.
Quantifying the rate of spurious EBs and predicting cor-
rectly CBTC system performance are hard tasks with im-
portant industrial relevance.
This work aims at lling this gap using simulation to bet-
ter predict CBTC system performance and avoid extra pro-
visioning before deployment. A typical CBTC system im-
plementation for metro by Alstom Transport is considered.
New ns-3 modules (CBTC protocol, Video trac genera-
tor, multi-channel scanning mechanism, 3D antennas pat-
terns) are developed and a piece of existing code is enhanced.
The simulation is also used to investigate the dimension of
the radio access networks in a realistic environment (specic
modems and access point antennas, radio frequencies, train
and track models), another aspect also ignored in the previ-
ous literature. Last, our approach can be useful to validate
some analytical works.
Keywords
Communication Based Train Control, Signaling Sy