




Thank you for downloading my book.
_________________
 
Get a FREE version of the LAB Profile® when you join my mailing list.
 
Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Shelle Rose Charvet and The Institute for Influence.
 

CLICK HERE TO STAY IN TOUCH

 
Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive information in your inbox.














Use Words that Change Minds in Speaking & Writing
Strengthen your #1 skill for business - the ability to influence.
Do you know the Influencing and Persuasion Principle?
"To get people to go somewhere with you, you need to meet them where they are... and not just pretend that they are already where you want them to be.
Instead, go to their bus stop and from their bus stop, invite them on the bus."
Most people, particularly successful people, use the same strategy with others that they used to convince themselves to believe or do something, but.... other people are different!
Based on years of study and work with people and organizations, this book is packed with practical applications for professionals who need to predict and influence behavior to succeed. This is the first step to achieving your quantum leap in communication.
When you can easily identify what is motivating people, how they think and how they make decisions, you'll be able to:

establish a deep level of rapport and communicate effectively with anyone
reduce conflicts and misunderstandings
take the pain out of implementing organizational change
shorten your sales cycle and guarantee customer satisfaction 
design powerful marketing and advertising campaigns
recruit the right people who fit and perform
dramatically improve your results in negotiations and presentations
create your learning programs to satisfy diverse needs, increase self-knowledge and competence
learn a whole new way to advance your coaching skills, and your coaching business
lead high performance teams by managing your peoples' strengths, instead of suffering from their weaknesses

The NEW 3rd edition of Words That Change Minds has more than 50% new material; examples, research, advanced applications, with 7 completely new chapters, including:
How to Complete a LAB Profile®
Conversational Coaching with the LAB Profile®
Understanding and Working with Combination Patterns
Solving Communication Problems
Influencing Strategies and Techniques
The LAB Profile® of Conflict
LAB Profile® Inventions and Tools, and more.







 
 
To my sons, Jason and Sam, who give me much joy and keep on teaching me, to my Mum and Dad, Betty and Frank Rose. And to my Micha for all your encouragement, love and support.






Copyright © 1995, 1997, 2019 by Shelle Rose Charvet,
Institute for Influence,
Library of Congress Control Number: 2019934542
ISBN  978-1-7336703-2-6
All rights reserved. Not part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retr