

















Copyright © 2020 Nate Dallas
All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  publication  may  be  reproduced,  stored  in  a retrieval  system,  or  transmitted,  in  any  form  or  in  any  means  –  by  electronic, mechanical,  photocopying,  recording  or  otherwise  –  without  prior  written permission. 
ISBN: 978-0-578-64342-7
Contents
Introduction
Chapter 1: Waking Up
Chapter 2: Lying in Plain Sight – Sleep
Chapter 3: Get with the Flow - Breathing
Chapter 4: Better Inputs for Better Output – Water & Food
Chapter 5: Strain, Pain, & Gains - Exercise
Chapter 6: Motion & Emotion – The Mind/Body Connection
Chapter 7: Getting Real with Yourself – Mindset
Chapter 8: Why We Do What We Do – Human Needs
Chapter 9: Lost Leaders - R & R & L
Chapter 10: The Path to Stillness - Meditation
Chapter 11: Lightening the Load - Minimalism
Chapter 12: Reworking – Work
Chapter 13: Cash Flow States - Money
Chapter 14: Leveling Up - Relationships
Outro

nt od
t on
YOU  PROBABLY  PICKED  up  this  book  because  the  title  resonated  with  you. 
You’re too good to feel this bad, and you know it. You’ve likely been thinking it for years, unsure of what to do with that sentiment. And now, you’re here, book in hand, with a uniquely tailored opportunity. This book started as a collection of personal  handwritten  notes.  They  were  the  ideas,  insights,  questions,  and answers  I  came  across  in  my  dedicated  pursuit  of  a  better  life.  I  originally compiled these notes for myself, but apparently, I wrote them for you too. 
A  few  years  back,  I  kicked  off  an  intense  search  for  ways  to  ease  the  stress harassing  my  mind  and  the  physical  ailments  plaguing  my  body.  And  I discovered a trove of awesome stuff. Rich insights and powerful practices were hidden  in  some  ordinary  places  and  also  in  some  strange  ones.  My  self-experiments went a little extreme because that’s the only way I knew how to do things.  I’ve  chronicled  the  ones  that  worked  best  in  this  book,  and  I’ve  even highlighted a few that flopped. My hope is that these words will both entertain and inspire you. 
Personal  growth  is  always  a  multi-faceted  process,  which  means  the  trek inevitably becomes complicated and overwhelming. To prevent mental overload and  analysis  paralysis,  I  arranged  this  guide  in  a  practical  and  achievable sequence.  We’ll  gather  small  wins  early  and  use  that  initial  momentum  to achieve  more  substantial  victories  later.  I’ve  also  compartmentalized  the  big-ticket items so you can tackle them one at a time. The pieces will eventually all fit back together into a consummate mosaic portrait of your best self. 
The  beginning  steps  are  mostly  physiological,  revisiting  the  fundamental areas of life we too often neglect. As we progress, we’ll add more psychological and  intellectual  elements.  Our  work  will  shift  from  straightforward  actions  to deeply contemplative one