

























Copyright © 2022 by Rockridge Press
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise without the prior written permission of the Publisher. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, Rockridge Press, 1955 Broadway, Suite 400, Oakland, CA 94612.
First Rockridge Press trade paperback edition 2022
Rockridge Press and the Rockridge Press logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Callisto Media Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries and may not be used without written permission. 
For general information on our other products and services, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (866) 744-2665, or outside the United States at (510) 253-0500.
Paperback ISBN: 978-1-63878-583-5 | eBook ISBN: 978-1-63878-693-1
Manufactured in the United States of America
Interior and Cover Designer: John CalmeyerArt Producer: Melissa MalinowskyEditor: Brian SweetingProduction Editor: Jax BermanProduction Manager: Lanore Coloprisco
Illustrations © LEROY Design/Creative Market; author photo courtesy of Matt Dubin, PhD
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0








To Matt, my companion in growth and my reward for doing the work.








CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
How to Use This Workbook on an Ebook Device
CHAPTER 1 Let’s Talk about Personality
CHAPTER 2 How to Nurture Self-Growth
CHAPTER 3 Take an Honest Look at Yourself and Your Past
CHAPTER 4 Setting Goals with a Purpose
CHAPTER 5 Taking Action and Forming The Habits You Want
CHAPTER 6 Keeping Track of Your Growth
CHAPTER 7 Tackling Obstacles and Embracing Failure
CHAPTER 8 Practicing Self-Love
RESOURCES
REFERENCES
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
ABOUT THE AUTHOR








INTRODUCTION
Prepare to amaze yourself. You’re about to set off on a journey that will bring out the best in you. You may not have thought that making deep personal changes could be an enjoyable and rewarding experience, but by the end of this book you’ll be equipped with the tools to pursue a happier and more fulfilled life, with improved relationships and a more positive sense of your future.
I have devoted decades to studying what makes people tick and how to motivate them to change for the better. My fascination with human behavior began when I was a child. I grew up in a tough area of town, in a home connected to a tavern. My world was filled with wonderful people living difficult lives. What was it, I wondered, that led them to cycles of addiction, violence, poverty, and despair? And what would it take for them to believe in themselves and live differently?
My passion for understanding human suffering and personal growth led me to a fifteen-year career as a child and adolescent psychiatrist. I learned numerous theories about how personality is formed and how adul