Product Line Engineering
Applied to CBTC Systems Development
Alessio Ferrari1, Giorgio O. Spagnolo1,
Giacomo Martelli2, and Simone Menabeni2
1 ISTI-CNR, Via G. Moruzzi 1, Pisa, ITALY,
{lastname}@isti.cnr.it,
WWW home page: http://www.isti.cnr.it/
2 DSI, Universit`a degli Studi di Firenze, Via di S.Marta 3, Firenze, ITALY,
{lastname}@dsi.unifi.it,
WWW home page: http://www.dsi.unifi.it/
Abstract. The degree of automation in rail transport systems is con-
stantly increasing. The gradual replacement of the control role of the
human agent requires these systems to guarantee an enhanced level of
safety and reliability. On the other hand, increased automation implies
increased complexity. Dealing with such complexity requires to analyse
the diﬀerent system aspects at the proper level of abstraction.
The semi-formal and formal modelling methods can provide crucial sup-
port to meet the safety and reliability requirements and ensure that a
proper degree of abstraction is maintained during the analysis. Further-
more, the product line engineering technology provides a suitable tool to
integrate formal modelling with system modularity.
Communications-based Train Control (CBTC) systems are the new fron-
tier of automated train control and operation. Currently developed CBTC
platforms are actually very complex systems including several function-
alities, and every installed system, developed by a diﬀerent company,
varies in extent, scope, number, and even names of the implemented
functionalities. International standards have emerged, but they remain
at a quite abstract level, mostly setting terminology.
This paper reports intermediate results in an eﬀort aimed at deﬁning
a global model of CBTC, by mixing formal modelling and product line
engineering. The eﬀort has been based on an in-depth market analysis,
not limiting to particular aspects but considering as far as possible the
whole picture. The adopted methodology is discussed and a preliminary
model is presented.
Introduction
Communications-based Train Control (CBTC) is the last technological frontier
for signalling and train control in the metro market [19, 11]. CBTC systems oﬀer
ﬂexible degrees of automation, from enforcing control over dangerous operations
acted by the driver, to the complete replacement of the driver role with an
automatic pilot and an automatic on-board monitoring system.
2
Depending on the speciﬁc installation, diﬀerent degrees of automation might
be required. Furthermore, companies shall be able to provide complete CBTC
systems, but also subsets of systems. The aim is to satisfy the needs of green-ﬁeld
installations, and address the concerns of the operators who wish to renew only
a part of an already installed system. In this sense, the product line engineering
technology provides a natural tool to address the need for modularity required
by a market of this type [6, 9].
Entering the CBTC market with a novel product requires such a product to
be compliant with the existing standa