N A T I O N A L 
B E S T S E L L E R
CONSILIENCE
THE UNITY OF KNOWLEDGE
Edward O. Wilson
PULITZER PRIZE-WINNING AUTHOR OF ON HUMAN NATURE AND THE ANTS
"A dazzling journey across the sciences and humanities in search
of deep laws to unite them." —The Wall Street Journal
EDWARD O.WILSON
Consilience
EDWARD O . W I L S O N was born in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1929.
He received his B.S. and M.S. in biology from the University of
Alabama and, in 1955, his Ph.D. in biology from Harvard, where he
has since taught, and where he has received both of its college-wide
teaching awards. He is currently Pellegrino University Research Pro-
fessor and Honorary Curator in Entomology of the Museum of
Comparative Zoology at Harvard. He is the author of two Pulitzer
Prize-winning books, On Human Nature (1978) and The Ants (1990,
with Bert Hölldobler), as well as the recipient of many fellow-
ships, honors, and awards, including the 1977 National Medal of Sci-
ence, the Crafoord Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences (1990), the International Prize for Biology from Japan (1993),
and, for his conservation efforts, the Gold Medal of the Worldwide
Fund for Nature (1990) and the Audubon Medal of the National
Audubon Society (1995). He is on the Board of Directors of the Nature
Conservancy, Conservation International, and the American Museum
of Natural History, and gives many lectures throughout the world. He
lives in Lexington, Massachusetts, with his wife, Irene.
Acclaim for EDWARD O. WILSON'S
Consilience
"Edward O. Wilson is a hero ... he has made landmark scientific dis-
coveries and has a writing style to die for. . . . A complex and nuanced
argument." 
—The Boston Globe
"One of the clearest and most dedicated popularizers of science since
T. H. Huxley... Mr. Wilson can do the science and the prose."—Time
"Exceptionally insightful. . . . Looking beyond today's spectacular
advances . . . in reading the molecularly coded book of life, Wilson
points to a future in which this biological understanding will give us
the power to reshape ourselves. . . . He cuts through much polarized
nonsense about nature versus nurture or genes versus culture, showing
how both are as relevant to us as to other animals."—Scientific American
"A work to be held in awe, to be read with joy and attentiveness, to be
celebrated and challenged and returned to again and again ... an act
of consummate intellectual heroism." 
— The Baltimore Sun
"An excellent book. Wilson provides superb overviews of Western
intellectual history and the current state of understanding in many
academic disciplines." 
—Slate
"The Renaissance scholar still lives. . . . A sensitive, wide-ranging mind
discoursing beautifully. . . . Wilson's buoyant intellectual courage is
bracing." 
—Seattle Weekly
"Extraordinarily clear, evocative . . . elegant... the sheer breadth of
his project and daring in its undertaking win him the benefit of the
doubt.... A tour de force." 
—Publishers Weekly
