Railway 
Engineering 
SECOND EDITION 
Satish Chandra 
Professov, Department of Civil Engineering, 
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee 
M.M. Agarwal 
Retired Chief Engineev, 
Northern Railway 
OXFORD 
UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. 
It furthers the University’s objective of excellence in research, scholarship, 
and education by publishing worldwide. Oxford is a registered trade mark of 
Oxford University Press in the UK and in certain other countries. 
Published in India by 
Oxford University Press 
YMCA Library Building, 1 Jai Singh Road, New Delhi 110001, India 
0 Oxford University Press 2007,2013 
The moral rights of the authorls have been asserted. 
First Edition published in 2007 
Second Edition published in 2013 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the 
prior permission in writing of Oxford University Press, or as expressly permitted 
by law, by licence, or under terms agreed with the appropriate reprographics 
rights organization. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the scope of the 
above should be sent to the Rights Department, Oxford University Press, at the 
address above. 
You must not circulate this work in any other form 
and you must impose this same condition on any acquirer. 
ISBN-13: 978-0-19-808353-5 
ISBN-10: 0-19-808353-X 
Typeset in Times New Roman 
by Anvi Composers, New Delhi 110063 
Printed in India by Adage Printers (P) Ltd., Noida 201301 U.P. 
About the Authors 
Satish Chandra is currently Professor, Department of Civil Engineering at the 
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee. A PhD from IIT Roorkee, Dr Chandra 
is an expert in the area of highway materials and traffic-flow modelling and has 
published over 100 research papers. 
M.M. Agarwal retired as Chief Engineer, Northern Railway. Besides a career 
with Indian Railways spanning 33 years, he has also served German Railways and 
Zambia Railways. He is an expert on track technology and has published about 
50 technical papers on track modernization and other related track matters, many 
of which have been discussed in international and national conferencesheminars. 
He has also authored Indian Railway Track: Design, Construction, Maintenance 
and Modernisation. He is the recipient of the national award for special work 
done on track maintenance and the President’s award for the best original book 
on railway tracks in Hindi. 
