PENGUIN BOOKS
THE BLANK SLATE
Steven Pinker is an experimental psychologist and one of the world’s foremost
writers on language, mind, and human nature. Currently Johnstone Family
Professor of Psychology at Harvard University, Pinker has also taught at
Stanford and MIT. His research on vision, language, and social relations has won
prizes from the National Academy of Sciences, the Royal Institution of Great
Britain, the Cognitive Neuroscience Society, and the American Psychological
Association. He has also received eight honorary doctorates, several teaching
awards at MIT and Harvard, and numerous prizes for his books The Language
Instinct, How the Mind Works, The Better Angels of Our Nature, and The Sense
of Style. He is Chair of the Usage Panel of the American Heritage Dictionary,
and often writes for The New York Times, Time, and other publications. He has
been named Humanist of the Year, Prospect magazine’s “The World’s Top 100
Public Intellectuals,” Foreign Policy’s “100 Global Thinkers,” and Time
magazine’s “The 100 Most Influential People in the World Today.”
Praise for The Blank Slate
“A brilliant and forceful summary . . . A well-informed and well-written account
of [human] limitations, [written with] a graceful interleaving of scientific and
literary sources. . . . [This] fine book helps with a task that we all must begin to
take seriously . . . Can it be that we have finally grown up?”
—Melvin Konner, The American Prospect
This is a brilliant book. It is beautifully written, and addresses profound issues
with courage and clarity. There is nothing else like it, and it is going to have an
impact that extends well beyond the scientific academy.”
—Paul Bloom, Trends in Cognitive Sciences
“Steven Pinker has written an extremely good book—clear, well argued, fair,
learned, tough, witty, humane, stimulating. I only hope that people study it
carefully before rising up ideologically against him. If they do, they will see that
the idea of an innately flawed but wonderfully rich human nature is a force for
good, not evil.”
—Colin McGinn, The Washington Post
Steven Pinker is a man of encyclopedic knowledge and an incisive style of
argument. His argument in The Blank Slate is that intellectual life in the West,
and much of our social and political policy, was increasingly dominated through
the twentieth century by a view of human nature that is fundamentally flawed;
that this domination has been backed by something that amounts to academic
terrorism (he does not put it quite so strongly): and that we would benefit
substantially from a more realistic view. Pinker’s exposition is thoroughly
readable and of enviable clarity. His explanation of such a difficult technical
matter as the analysis of variance and regression in twin studies, for example,
would be very hard to better. He is not afraid of using strong language . . . in
addition, parts of the book are delightfully funny.”
—John R. G. Turner, The Times Literary Supplement
“Anyone who has read P