
















Before We Grow Old











Clare Swatman



















For Mum and Dad. Thanks for everything









Contents



Preface




Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Epilogue




Acknowledgments


More from Clare Swatman


About the Author


About Boldwood Books














Dear William,
I can’t believe you’re gone. I can’t believe I’ll never get to hold you again, to feel the softness and warmth of your skin against mine, to press my lips into your hair. To watch you become the amazing man I know you’ll one day be. To be a part of your life, the way we’d always imagined.
My arms will feel empty forever.
I have no more words. I’m sorry.
I’m broken.
I hope you’ll have a happier life than I can give you.
I love you. Always.
Fran

















1

Then






August 1982



Mum reached up and pressed the doorbell firmly, an apple crumble balanced precariously in her left hand. I stood to her right, slightly behind her, and studied the scratched red paint on the door.
When it swung open I peered up to see a lady standing in the doorway, blonde hair piled up on her head, pink lipsticked mouth stretched into a smile. She looked as pretty as my favourite Sindy doll and I smiled back shyly.
‘Hello, I’m Stephanie Gordon, and this is my daughter, Francesca,’ Mum said, slightly too loudly. ‘We’ve just moved next door so I wanted to come and say hello. Oh, and I’ve made you this.’ She held the crumble up and the lady looked at it for a moment before reaching out and taking it.
‘Thank you! How very kind. And how lovely to meet you, Stephanie – and Francesca, was it?’ She bent down and peered at me behind my mother’s waist.
I nodded.
‘Wonderful. I’m Kathy. Kathy Poulton.’ She stepped back. ‘Oh, how rude of me, would you like to come in? I’ve just put the kettle on.’
‘Thank you, that would be lovely.’ Mum’s voice sounded different, a bit like the queen when she does her speeches.
We stepped into the house that was the mirror image of ours, all the doors and rooms on the wrong side of the hallway, and followed Mrs Poulton into the kitchen. I stared at the wooden cupboards and cream worktops, which were much nicer than the ones we had in our new house. Mrs Poulton put the crumble on the side and opened the back door.
‘William, James, can you come here a moment please?’
Seconds later two boys, one about seven, the same as me, and one much younger, both with blonde curls and scuffed knees, appeared at the door.
‘Is it snack time?’
‘Not yet. I want you to meet Mrs Gordon and Francesca. They’ve just moved in next door.’
Both faces turned to me. ‘’Lo,’ the smallest boy said. ‘I’m Jim.’
‘James,’ Mrs Poulton corrected.
‘Jim,’ he repeated, giving