








Patrick King

Better Small Talk

Talk to Anyone, Avoid Awkwardness, Generate Deep Conversations, and Make Real Friends








Better Small Talk:
Talk to Anyone, Avoid Awkwardness, Generate Deep Conversations, and Make Real Friends

By Patrick King
Social Interaction and Conversation Coach at www.PatrickKingConsulting.com

As a FREE show of appreciation to my readers, I’ve got TWO great resources for you:

>> CLICK HERE For The Flawless Interaction Checklist and Better Conversations Worksheet! <<

The Checklist describes in-depth the 7 essential components to exceptional interactions and conversations between you and everyone from a stranger to your partner—and The Worksheet puts a few of those components to the test with practice exercises that will instantly upgrade any conversation.
Learn how to:
·       Make people comfortable
·       Connect easily in any context
·       Develop killer eye contact
·       Prepare for any social situation
·       Appear as intuitive as a mind reader
·       Never run out of things to say
·       Practice and drill all of the above

CLICK HERE to download your FREE copy now!









Table of Contents

Better Small Talk: Talk to Anyone, Avoid Awkwardness, Generate Deep Conversations, and Make Real Friends
Table of Contents


Chapter 1. Ugh, Small Talk

The Small Talk Mindset
A Childlike Exercise
Your Conversation Résumé
Conversational Stages


Chapter 2. Initial Impressions

Set the Tone
Make the First Move
Find Similarity
Manufacture Connection


Chapter 3. How to be Captivating

A Life of Stories
The 1:1:1 Method
The Story Spine
Inside Stories
Ask for Stories


Chapter 4. Keep It Flowing and Smooth

Create Motion
Think on Your Feet
Helpful Acronyms


Chapter 5. Go Deeper, Be Better

The Oldest Trick in the Book
Two Ears, One Mouth
Ask Better Questions


Chapter 6. Looking Inwards

Build Thyself
Branch Out
You Only See Black and White


Summary Guide









Chapter 1. Ugh, Small Talk

Human beings are a social species. Connection is crucial to happiness, staving off depression, and keeping healthy—literally. Various studies have shown that the effects of loneliness are akin to eating a poorer diet and exercising less, and can ultimately lead to the same place—an early death.
It might sound a little melodramatic, but companionship is literally the way our brains have been built to survive and thrive.
But for the purposes of this book’s topic, there’s an even more important wrinkle: the quality of our interactions matters as well, not just the quantity or presence of other people around us. Sounds like even our brains despise small talk.
A 2010 study by Matthias Mehl had participants wandering around in their daily lives armed with a device that would record their audio environment over three days. The researchers analyzed how long each participant was in the presence of other people, and whether they were having casual conversations or were talking about more substantive matters. Basically, the aim 