



BOLD
212½ Charisma and Small Talk Tips toEngage, Charm and Leave a Lasting Impression








Copyright © 2015 by Tycho Press, Berkeley, California
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without the prior written permission of the publisher. Requests to the publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, Tycho Press, 918 Parker St., Suite A-12, Berkeley, CA 94710.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: The publisher and the author make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this work and specifically disclaim all warranties, including without limitation warranties of fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales or promotional materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for every situation. This work is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering medical, legal, or other professional advice or services. If professional assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought. Neither the publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising herefrom. The fact that an individual, organization, or website is referred to in this work as a citation and/or potential source of further information does not mean that the author or the publisher endorses the information the individual, organization, or website may provide or recommendations they/it may make. Further, readers should be aware that Internet websites listed in this work may have changed or disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read.
For general information on our other products and services or to obtain technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (866) 744-2665, or outside the United States at (510) 253-0500.
Tycho Press publishes its books in a variety of electronic and print formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic books, and vice versa.
TRADEMARKS: Tycho Press and the Tycho Press logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Callisto Media Inc. and/or its affiliates, in the United States and other countries, and may not be used without written permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Tycho Press is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
Illustrations © Eli Stein
ISBN: Print 978-1-62315-635-0 | eBook 978-1-62315-636-7







Contents
PART ONE
FROM HERMITTO SOCIABLE
PART TWO
FROM SOCIABLETO POPULAR
PART THREE
FROM POPULARTO SOCIALITE
PART FOUR
CHARISMAATTAINED






Introduction
Being charismatic has forever been the holy grail of personality skills. The abi