



RESOURCES
The following resources will help you on your journey. Find out more about Brad Hook on bradleyhook.com.
CONNECT WITH BRAD HOOK
Brad Hook Podcast
bradleyhook.com/podcast
Discover the Brad Hook Podcast: a place for the curious. Each episode offers deep dives with diverse guests—from academics demystifying theories to athletes discussing grit, authors revealing their thought processes, or storytellers enchanting with tales. It’s a fusion of backgrounds and ideas, aiming to provide listeners with a kaleidoscope of inspiration, knowledge, and passion.
Search “Brad Hook Podcast” in Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and Amazon Music.
Brad’s Socials

YouTube: youtube.com/@thebradhook
Instagram: instagram.com/bradhook
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/bradleyhook
Other Writing

Newsletter: bradleyhook.com/news
Articles:  bradleyhook.com/blog
Books:  bradleyhook.com/books
Brad on Entrepreneur Magazine:  entrepreneur.com/author/bradley-hook
Waves of Freedom Documentary

 bradleyhook.com/documentary
 Surfd.com
PERSONAL VALUES
Discover and align your values with the comprehensive resource library available on  startwithvalues.com. Download the Values App at  startwithvalues.com/values-app.
THE VALUES COURSE
 startwithvalues.com/values-course
Would you like to add the latest tools to your coaching practice? Do you want to champion values within your organization? Are you a leader wanting to upgrade your company culture? Want to create a values-based family or community? Looking for proven ways to reduce your own stress and increase fulfillment?
Sign up for the Values Course and elevate your practice with this guided learning experience.
Articles about values:  startwithvalues.com/articles
Books about values:  startwithvalues.com/books-about-core-values
Join the values newsletter:  startwithvalues.com/news
Values-based decision-making:  startwithvalues.com/decisions
Values meditation:  startwithvalues.com/meditation
WORKPLACE VALUES
If you’re looking to refresh your company values—or bring them to life with research-based tools—then visit  startwithvalues.com.
Workplace Values:  startwithvalues.com/values-training
Book a keynote presentation:  geniya@startwithvalues.com
Articles about values at work:  startwithvalues.com/category/workplace
BUILD RESILIENCE
 resiliencei.com/resilience-assessment
Brad Hook is a partner at Resilience Institute Global, a B Corp that is committed to helping organizations achieve performance with care. Brad and the team at Resilience Institute support many of the world’s most influential organizations with measurement and training programs. Find out more at  resiliencei.com.
Discover how resilient you are: Discover the assessment that is changing how leaders support their teams. Featuring 50 factors that underpin physical, emotional, mental and social fitness, it takes the guesswork out of employee well-being, performance and engagement.
The Resilience Assessment is a scientifically-validated, peer-reviewed toolkit, developed over two 