Build systems with Go
Everything a Gopher must know
Juan M. Tirado
Build systems with Go 
by Juan M. Tirado 
Copyright ©2021
Independently published
Cover by Juan M.Tirado 
Gopher Gotham image by Egon Elbre (@egonelbre)
All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including
photocopying, recording or by any information storage or retrieval system,
without the prior written permission of the copyright owner.
This book has been entirely written using LATEX.
EPub 3.0 conversion was done using tex4ebook: 
https://github.com/michal-h21/tex4ebook
Revision History:
v0.1.0: 2021-03-29 First version
PREFACE
Welcome and thank you for reading these lines.
Since I started programming in Go, I have always enjoyed its
extraordinary commitment to simplicity. It is difficult to find another
language that can make complex things so easily. That is the beauty of this
language. Years have passed by and Go is no longer the new kid on the
block, it has already become a mature language surrounded by a rich
ecosystem of libraries, projects, and tools. Talking about Go is no longer
talking about that fancy language that makes your life easier. Go is the
gravity centre of a continuously growing ecosystem of amazing solutions
maintained by a devoted community of developers.
Go was originally designed to simplify the building of complex systems.
However, when a developer decides to learn Go most of the learning
resources simply explain the language. This book goes one step further by
exploring tools, libraries, and projects from the Go ecosystem you can use to
build ready-for-production systems. Everything a gopher must know in a
single book.
I hope you find this book useful.
WHO SHOULD READ THIS BOOK?
This book is oriented to new Go adopters and developers with programming
experience in other languages. The first part of this book covers the Go
language from its basics to more advanced concepts. The second part
assumes these concepts to be known by the reader and explores how to use
them with other tools to build systems. If you are new to Go you can start
from the beginning. However, if you have some experience you can start with
the second part and revisit any basic concept if needed. Or you can simply go
and check the chapters at your convenience.
STRUCTURE OF THIS BOOK
