Springer Textbook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dietmar Gross 
received his Engineering Diploma in Applied Mechanics 
and his Doctor of Engineering degree at the University of 
Rostock. He was Research Associate at the University of 
Stuttgart and since 1976 he is Professor of Mechanics at the 
University of Darmstadt. His research interests are mainly 
focused on modern solid mechanics on the macro and 
micro scale, including advanced materials 
 
Prof. Dr. Werner Hauger 
studied Applied Mathematics and Mechanics at the 
University of Karlsruhe and  received his Ph.D. in Theoretical 
and Applied Mechanics from Northwestern University in 
Evanston. He worked in industry for several years, was a 
Professor at the Helmut-Schmidt-University in Hamburg and 
went to the University of Darmstadt in 1978. His research 
interests are, among others, theory of stability, dynamic 
plasticity and biomechanics. 
 
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Jörg Schröder 
studied Civil Engineering, received his doctoral degree at 
the University of Hannover and habilitated at the University 
of Stuttgart. He was Professor of Mechanics at the 
University of Darmstadt and went to the University of 
Duisburg-Essen in 2001. His fields of research are 
theoretical and computer-oriented continuum mechanics, 
modeling of functional materials as well as the further 
development of the finite element method. 
 
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wolfgang A. Wall 
studied Civil Engineering at Innsbruck University and 
received his doctoral degree from the University of Stuttgart. 
Since 2003 he is Professor of Mechanics at the TU München 
and Head of the Institute for Computational Mechanics. His 
research interests cover broad fields in computational 
mechanics, including both solid and fluid mechanics. His 
recent focus is on multiphysics and multiscale problems as 
well as computational biomechanics. 
 
Prof. Nimal Rajapakse 
studied Civil Engineering at the University of Sri Lanka and 
received Doctor of Engineering from the Asian Institute of 
Technology in 1983. He was Professor of Mechanics and 
Department Head at the University of Manitoba and at the 
University of British Columbia. He is currently Dean of 
Applied Sciences at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver. 
His research interests include mechanics of advanced 
materials and geomechanics. 
 
