English for IT Communication
English for IT Communication  provides a comprehensive introduction for students and 
professionals studying IT or computer science and covers all forms of technical communication 
from emails and memos through procedures to reports and design specs. In each case, the book 
offers multiple real-world examples, looking at who the texts are written for, what their purpose 
is, and how these affect what is on the page.
Key features of this book include
•	 How to write for different audiences and purposes
•	 How to design documents for ease of access and understanding
•	 How to communicate in multimodal media
•	 How to reference in IEEE
•	 Multiple different examples and breakdowns of common text types to show how they are 
written and to produce an understanding of quality in each
•	 Online support material including authentic examples of different workplace genres and 
a reference section covering relevant research studies and weblinks for readers to better 
understand the topics covered in each chapter
•	 Internationalized coverage of IT communication exemplars
This book is an accessible guide to writing effective forms of IT communications of the kind 
needed for all IT degree programmes which aim to prepare students for the modern workplace. 
Practical and clearly written, it is designed to introduce readers to features of the most common 
genres in IT and computer science.
Tony Myers has worked for over 15 years in the tertiary sector helping learners develop skills 
in academic and technical writing. He is currently an assistant professor teaching at Zayed 
University, specializing in ESAP. He has previously written books on academic writing, 
psychoanalysis, and literature for Routledge and for Bloomsbury Academic and has published 
articles on genre pedagogy, feedback literacy, and remote learning.
Jaime Buchanan is a senior lecturer at Zayed University who has taught academic and technical 
writing in higher education since 2010. She has published articles on subjects as diverse as 
pedagogy, feedback literacy, and remote learning. She is passionate about developing an awareness 
of effective writing strategies in her students to promote best practice communication in IT.
Routledge Applied English Language Introductions
Series Editor: Prithvi Shrestha
The Open University, UK
Routledge Applied English Language Introductions is a series of practical and accessible 
textbooks which introduce spoken and written English for a specific discipline, covering 
elements such as academic writing, email communication, presentations, writing up reports, 
and job applications.
The books are designed for students and professionals who aim to refine their English skills 
for their chosen field and professional career.
English for Business Communication
Mable Chan
English for IT Communication
Tony Myers and Jaime Buchanan
More information about this series can be found at www.routledge.com/Routledge-Applied-English-
Language-Int