Richard Wolfson
VOLUME TWO
FOURTH EDITION
GLOBAL EDITION
Middlebury College
Chapters 20–39
Essential  
University Physics
Pearson Education Limited
KAO Two
KAO Park
Hockham Way
Harlow
CM17 9SR
United Kingdom
and Associated Companies throughout the world
Visit us on the World Wide Web at: www.pearsonglobaleditions.com
© Pearson Education Limited 2021
The rights of Richard Wolfson to be identified as the authors of this work have been asserted by him in accordance 
with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. 
Authorized adaptation from the United States edition, entitled Essential University Physics: Volume 2, 4th Edition, 
ISBN 978-0-134-98856-6 by Richard Wolfson, published by Pearson Education © 2020. 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any 
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without either the prior written 
permission of the publisher or a license permitting restricted copying in the United Kingdom issued by the Copyright 
Licensing Agency Ltd, Saffron House, 6–10 Kirby Street, London EC1N 8TS. For information regarding permissions, 
request forms and the appropriate contacts within the Pearson Education Global Rights & Permissions department, 
please visit www.pearsoned.com/permissions/.
All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners. The use of any trademark in this text does not 
vest in the author or publisher any trademark ownership rights in such trademarks, nor does the use of such trade-
marks imply any affiliation with or endorsement of this book by such owners. 
Attributions of third party content appear on page C-1, which constitutes an extension of this copyright page.
PEARSON, ALWAYS LEARNING, MasteringTM Physics are exclusive trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries 
owned by Pearson Education, Inc. or its affiliates.
Unless otherwise indicated herein, any third-party trademarks that may appear in this work are the property of their 
respective owners and any references to third-party trademarks, logos or other trade dress are for demonstrative or 
descriptive purposes only. Such references are not intended to imply any sponsorship, endorsement, authorization, or 
promotion of Pearson’s products by the owners of such marks, or any relationship between the owner and Pearson 
Education, Inc. or its affiliates, authors, licensees or distributors.
ISBN 10:   1-292-35118-7
ISBN 13: 978-1-292-35118-6
eBook ISBN 13: 978-1-292-35116-2
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
1 20
Typeset by Integra Publishing Services
eBook formatted by Integra Software Services
