Praise for CONNECT
“Carole Robin and David Bradford are masters at helping people bring IQ
and EQ together to satisfy both and be successful. I recommend this book.”
—ray dalio, founder of Bridgewater Associates and author of Principles: Life and Work
“It’s never been clearer that meaningful relationships are critical to a
fulfilling and healthy life. Connect is a practical and timely book I highly
recommend that shows us that by learning to connect with ourselves, we
can more easily connect with others and build thriving relationships.”
—arianna huffington, founder and CEO of Thrive Global “At LinkedIn, we made
‘Relationships Matter’ one of our core values because the personal connections you make
persist across jobs, companies, and careers. Connect offers a compelling and highly
accessible road map for building relationships that lead to professional success and personal
fulfillment. I highly recommend this book.”
—reid hoffman, co-founder of LinkedIn and co-author of Blitzscaling and The Alliance
“Learning to connect across differences and develop relationships in which we can actually
see and hear others for who they are is becoming an imperative for nations and individuals
alike. Connect is a carefully structured set of concepts and practices that readers can apply to
everything from their marriages to their management challenges. It’s a treasure!”
—anne-marie slaughter, CEO of New America “One of my goals, and the reason I founded
MasterClass, is my fervent commitment to democratizing access to the world’s best. I am
thrilled that the immensely valuable lessons in Connect are now available to millions of
people. I encourage anyone who cares about developing stronger and more meaningful
relationships anywhere in their life to read this book.”
—david rogier, founder and CEO of MasterClass “I owe most of what I have accomplished
in both my career and my personal life to the lessons I learned in the course on which
Connect is based. I can’t wait to give a copy of Connect to my teammates, my family, and my
friends.”
—dara treseder, CMO of Peloton and board director of PG&E
“Decades in business have shown me that building high-trust relationships
is one of the most important keys to success, whether in negotiations or on
the basketball court. With practical insights into relationship building in
both personal and professional environments, Connect is the best book in its
class.”
—irv grousbeck, entrepreneur, co-owner of the Boston Celtics, and professor at the Stanford
Graduate School of Business “Carole and David’s classes have been an invaluable resource
—what a gift to have their insights and lessons in a book. I would recommend it to anyone
who wants to feel happier and more fulfilled, and to anyone who wants a better, smarter
future for our world.”
—dr. jennifer aaker, co-author of Humor, Seriously and The Dragonfly Effect
