Advanced Engineering 
Mathematics with 
MATLAB®
In the five previous editions of Advanced Engineering Mathematics with MATLAB®, the author presented a text 
firmly grounded in mathematics that engineers and scientists must understand and know how to use. Tapping 
into decades of teaching at the US Navy Academy and the US Military Academy and serving for twenty-five 
years at (NASA) Goddard Space Flight, he combines teaching and practical experience that is rare among au-
thors of advanced engineering mathematics books.
This edition continues to refine a smaller, easier to read, and useful version of this classic textbook. While 
competing textbooks continue to grow, the book presents a slimmer, more practical option to align with the 
expectations of today’s students. 
The new edition of the author’s classic textbook continues on a path to creating the best possible learning re-
source for instructors and students alike. Through extensive class testing over five previous editions, including 
the author’s current course at the US Naval Academy, the book has been steadily improved. 
The primary mission of this edition is to dramatically increase the quality and quantity of examples and prob-
lems, especially in the chapters on differential equations and Laplace transforms. The chapters on differential 
equations, linear algebra, Fourier series, and Laplace transforms have seen the greatest changes. Of course, this 
edition continues to offer a wealth of examples and applications from scientific and engineering literature, a 
highlight of previous editions.
MATLAB® remains central to the presentation and is employed to reinforce the concepts that are taught. 
Worked solutions are given in the back of the book. An Instructor’s Solutions Manual is also available. 
Dean G. Duffy has taught at the US Naval Academy and US Military Academy. He spent 25 years working on 
numerical weather prediction, oceanic wave modeling, and dynamical meteorology at NASA’s Goddard Space 
Flight Center. Prior to this, he was a numerical weather prediction officer in the US Air Force. He earned his 
Ph.D. in meteorology from MIT. Dr. Duffy has written several books on transform methods, engineering math-
ematics, and mixed boundary value problems including Green’s Functions with Applications, Second Edition, 
published by CRC Press.
Advances in Applied Mathematics
Series Editor: Daniel Zwillinger 
Quantum Computation
Helmut Bez and Tony Croft
Computational Mathematics
An Introduction to Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing with Python
Dimitrios Mitsotakis
Delay Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations
Andrei D. Polyanin
Vsevolod G. Sorkin
Alexi I. Zhurov
Clean Numerical Simulation
Shijun Liao
Multiplicative Partial Differential Equations
Svetlin Georgiev and Khaled Zennir
Engineering Statistics
A Matrix-Vector Approach with MATLAB®
Lester W. Schmerr Jr. 
General Quantum Numerical Analysis 
Svetlin Georgiev and Khaled Zennir
An Introduction to Partial Differential