2
HBR Special Issue 
Summer 2023
FROM THE EDITORS
EVERYONE ELSE ON the team knows more about how to do the work. They’re 
going to ﬁgure out your promotion was a mistake.
The term “impostor phenomenon” was ﬁrst applied to this mindset 
in a 1978 study of high-performing women. That study and others that 
followed have shown that many ambitious leaders experience over-
whelming worries that they aren’t qualiﬁed for their work. This anxiety 
exacts a mental and physical toll—and often results in toxic behaviors 
that harm their organizations. Tough on themselves and others, these 
individuals often become intimidating, perfectionistic, and abrasive.
Over the years HBR has oﬀered a healthy crop of advice for leaders on 
how to combat these feelings of inadequacy. Getting perspectives from 
mentors, bosses, and colleagues can help you acknowledge your successes 
and dispel perfectionism. Asking good questions can help you learn and 
gain conﬁdence faster. (You’ll ﬁnd this advice and more in this issue.)
But should it be up to you alone to ﬁx this problem? It didn’t escape our 
notice as we were assembling this collection that most of our articles on 
this topic were written by women and people of color, groups traditionally 
marginalized in the power structures of corporations. In their landmark 
article “Stop Telling Women They Have Impostor Syndrome” (also in this 
issue) Ruchika Tulshyan and Jodi-Ann Burey name the culpability of the 
system—or the company—in which the individual experiences these feel-
ings. It’s inescapable: Bias and exclusion logically foster self-doubt.
Of course, anyone can feel like they’re faking it. But surely organizations 
have a role to play in cultivating a sense of equity and belonging among 
all their people. And all of us have a responsibility to play this out in our 
interpersonal behaviors—combating bias, sponsoring our colleagues, and 
oﬀering praise when it is due—to keep one another’s self-doubt at bay. 
– The Editors
You’re not smart 
enough for this job.
SUMMER 2023
4
HBR Special Issue 
Summer 2023
Fix the System
The Dangers of Feeling  
Like a Fake  |  10
Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries
I’m Not an Impostor— 
So Why Do I Feel  
Like One?  |  20
LeRon L. Barton
Helping an Employee 
Overcome Their  
Self-Doubt  |  22
Tara Sophia Mohr
Four Ways to Combat 
Impostor Syndrome  
on Your Team  |  24
Richard Gardner and Jeff Bednar
Stop Telling Women  
They Have Impostor 
Syndrome  |  26
Ruchika Tulshyan and  
Jodi-Ann Burey
End Impostor Syndrome  
in Your Workplace  |  29
Ruchika Tulshyan and  
Jodi-Ann Burey
Why Do So Many 
Incompetent Men  
Become Leaders?  |  34
Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic
Contents
MICHELLE D’URBANO
Cover photograph by THE VOORHES/GALLERY STOCK
Culled by the editors of Harvard Business Review 
from the magazine’s rich archives, these articles are 
written by some of the world’s leading management 
scholars and practitioners. To help busy leaders 
apply the concepts in our feature-length articles, 
they are