REPRINT H04C7L
PUBLISHED ON HBR.ORG
MAY 22, 2018
ARTICLE
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
How Living Abroad
Helps You Develop a
Clearer Sense of Self
by Hajo Adam, Otilia Obodaru, Jackson G. Lu, William
Maddux and Adam Galinsky
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
How Living Abroad Helps
You Develop a Clearer
Sense of Self
by Hajo Adam, Otilia Obodaru, Jackson G. Lu, William Maddux and Adam Galinsky
MAY 22, 2018
Fabien Butazzi/Unsplash
In today’s increasingly globalized world, more and more people are choosing to live, work and study
abroad—and this trend appears to be a good thing: social science studies have shown that
international experiences can enhance creativity, reduce intergroup bias, and promote career
success.
2
COPYRIGHT © 2018 HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
To better understand the psychological effects of living abroad, we set out to examine whether and
how international experiences can transform a person’s sense of self. Specifically, we focused on
“self-concept clarity,” the extent to which someone’s understanding of himself or herself is “clearly
and confidently defined, internally consistent, and temporally stable”. Self-concept clarity has been
linked to a host of benefits, such as psychological well-being, the ability to cope with stress, and job
performance, but research on how it can be cultivated is very limited.
Most studies have found that transitional experiences, such as job changes or romantic breakups,
typically decrease self-concept clarity. However, all five of us have lived abroad at some point in our
lives, and we all felt that we gained a clearer sense of who we are as a result. So we wondered
whether living abroad is a unique kind of transitional experience that may actually increase self-
concept clarity.
Living Abroad Is Associated with a Clearer Sense of Self
We tested our hypothesis that living abroad will increase self-concept clarity across six studies
involving 1,874 participants. In the first study, we recruited 296 people online, half of whom had
lived abroad for a minimum of three months, and half of whom had not. All participants completed a
well-established measure of self-concept clarity, which asked for their level of agreement with
questions such as “In general, I have a clear sense of who I am and what I am” and “I seldom
experience conflict between the different aspects of my personality” (see sidebar). We found that
people who had lived abroad reported a clearer sense of self than people who had not.
Measuring self-concept clarity
Participants indicated how strongly they agreed or disagreed (on a 5-point scale from 1=
“strongly disagree” to 5= “strongly agree”) with the following statements:
1. My beliefs about myself often conflict with one another.
2. On one day I might have one opinion of myself and on another day I might have a different
opinion.
3. I spend a lot of time wondering about what kind of person I really am.
4. Sometimes I feel that I am not really the person that I