




English C1 Vocabulary 2022
The Most Comprehensive Advanced English Vocabulary (5th Edition)
 
 






by Premier English Learning Publishing
 
Copyright © 2022 Premier English Learning Publishing All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except as permitted by U.S.
copyright law.
For any inquiries:
premierenglishpublishing@gmail.com
 
From Publisher
 
5th edition of the most comprehensive Advanced English vocabulary. For this edition we have added more than a hundred new words.
In this book, we have collected all Advanced English words you should know to brilliantly pass writing and speaking parts of all International English Tests.
This vocabulary contains only the most important words with clear and simple definitions and up-to-date example sentences.
Study at home or in class, bookmark pages, and remember that repetition is the key to memory.
Vocabulary
 
Abdicate
Meaning: To give up (power, duties, obligations); to retire.
Example: The abdication of the Queen.
 
Abet
Meaning: To assist or encourage someone to do something illegal.
Example: She abetted the thief.
 
Abhor
Meaning: To strongly hate something.
Example: I abhor scammers.
 
Abnegation
Meaning: To deny or reject something (like a doctrine or belief); self-denial.
Example: Abnegation of political power.
 
Abscond
Meaning: To leave hurriedly and secretly; to run away.
Example: Prime suspect absconded to Mexico.
 
Abstruse
Meaning: Difficult to understand.
Example: Abstruse essay on quantum physics.
 
Abysmal
Meaning: Very bad or low in quality.
Example: The quality of his work is abysmal.
 
Accede
Meaning: To express approval; agree to do what you are asked.
Example: The government did not accede the requests of the citizens.
 
Accolade
Meaning: When someone is given an award or privilege to recognize their merit.
Example: My teacher received an accolade for his scientific work.
 
Accretion
Meaning: An addition to something.
Example: The house was expanded by the accretion of new outbuildings.
 
Accumulation
Meaning: A gathering or increase of something; growth by addition.
Example: Her goal for the coming year is to accumulate a large sum of money.
 
Acquaint
Meaning: To give someone information about something; to make familiar.
Example: We need to acquaint him with our goal.
 
Acrimonious
Meaning: Full of anger; bitter or harsh in manner or speech.
Example: Acrimonious debate about air pollution.

Act up
Meaning: To behave badly or oddly.
Example: The car's engine began to act up.
 
Acuity
Meaning: The ability to think, see, or hear very clearly.
Example: Visual acuity; political acuity.
 
Acumen
Meaning: The ability to make correct decisions or judgments.
Example: He has extraordinary financial acumen.
 
Adjacent
Meaning: Next to; nearby.
Example: Adjacent buildings; adjacent suburbs.
 
Adjure
Meaning: Order someone to do something.
Example: I adjure you to tell me the truth.
 
Adorn
Meaning: To make some