




English C2 Vocabulary 2022
The Most Comprehensive English Proficiency Vocabulary (3rd Edition)
 
 






by Premier English Learning Publishing
 
Copyright © 2022 Premier English Learning Publishing All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except as permitted by U.S.
copyright law.
For any inquiries:
premierenglishpublishing@gmail.com
 
From Publisher
 
3rd edition of the most comprehensive English Proficiency vocabulary.
In this book, we have collected words, idioms, and phrasal verbs you should know to brilliantly pass writing and speaking parts of all English Proficiency Tests.
This vocabulary contains only the most important words with clear and simple definitions and up-to-date example sentences.
Study at home or in class, bookmark pages, and remember that repetition is the key to memory.
Vocabulary
 
Abiding
Meaning: Ongoing; continues for a long time.
Example: Abiding love for old movies.
 
Able-bodied
Meaning: Strong and healthy; physically fit.
Example: Our construction company requires only able-bodied workers.
 
Abolish
Meaning: To cancel; put an end to; terminate; finish something.
Example: Prohibition was abolished in 1933.
 
Absentminded
Meaning: One who constantly forgets things or fails to notice things.
Example: Sarah's absentminded husband forgot his car keys at the bar.
 
Abundant
Meaning: Available in large quantities; more than enough.
Example: The lake near our house is abundant in fish.
 
Accentuate
Meaning: To make more noticeable.
Example: Dan's new shirt accentuates his biceps.
 
Accrue
Meaning: To accumulate; gradually increase over time.
Example: I placed my money in a saving account to accrue interest.
 
Acerbic
Meaning: Harsh, sarcastic and critical.
Example: Someone left a very acerbic comment under my new video.
 
Adamant
Meaning: Unwillingness to change one's mind, decision, or belief.
Example: Mike was adamant in his decision to quit his job.
 
Afflatus
Meaning: Sudden burst of inspiration; strong creative impulse.
Example: In 1995, on a wave of afflatus, I wrote my first book.
 
Aggravate
Meaning: Make something bad even worse.
Example: The new treatment plan only aggravated her condition Aimless Meaning: Without clear purpose or intent.
Example: Jack's life became aimless after the death of his wife.
 
Akin
Meaning: Similar in some way.
Example: He spoke in a language akin to Spanish; this game is akin to football.

Aloof
Meaning: Unfriendly; stays away from others; distant.
Example: Jessica kept aloof from her father's new wife.
 
Ambrosial
Meaning: Delicious; something very tasty or smelly.
Example: Her mother's birthday cake was ambrosial.
 
Antagonize
Meaning: Make someone dislike you or get mad at you.
Example: After the divorce, Rebecca tried to antagonize our kids against me.
 
Ante up
Meaning: To give money; pay what is due.
Example: My landlord told me to ante up or vacate the apartment by the beginning of the month.
 
Antiqu