






















Dedication
For Florence Kleiner








Contents
Cover
Title Page
Dedication
Everything I Knew About Love as a Teenager
Boys
The Bad Date Diaries: Twelve Minutes
The Bad Party Chronicles: UCL Halls, New Year’s Eve 2006
A Hellraiser Heads to Leamington Spa
Recipe: Hangover Mac and Cheese
The Bad Date Diaries: A Hotel on a Main Road in Ealing
The Bad Party Chronicles: Cobham, New Year’s Eve 2007
Dear Anyone I’ve Ever Met and a Few People I’ve Never Met
Being a Bit Fat, Being a Bit Thin
Everything I Knew About Love at Twenty-One
Gooseberry Fool: My Life as a Third Wheel
Things I Am Scared Of
Being Björn Again
The Most Annoying Things People Say
The Uncool Girls of Uncool Camden
Recipe: The Seducer’s Sole Meunière
Dear Friends Who I Normally Only Ever Get Completely Leathered With
Recipe: Apple Pizza With Can’t Be Arsed Ice Cream
“Nothing Will Change”
The Bad Date Diaries: A £300 Restaurant Bill
The Bad Party Chronicles: My House in Camden, Christmas 2014
Recipe: Got Kicked Out of the Club Sandwich
The Bad Date Diaries: A Midmorning, Completely Sober Snog
Everything I Knew About Love at Twenty-Five
Reasons to Have a Boyfriend and Reasons Not to Have a Boyfriend
Tottenham Court Road and Ordering Shit Off Amazon
Dear All
Weekly Shopping List
Florence
Recipe: Scrambled Eggs
Texts That My Flatmate India Has Let Me Send Off Her Phone Pretending to Be Her
Hello Any Woman Emily Has Known for the Last Twenty-eight Years
My Therapist Says
Dear Dolly Something Alderton
Heartbreak Hotel
I Got Gurued
Good Morning to Karen’s Fertile and Barren Friends
Enough
Twenty-Eight Lessons Learned in Twenty-Eight Years
Homecoming
Everything I Know About Love at Twenty-Eight
Thirty
Recipe: Meltdown Birthday Cake
Everything I Know About Love at Thirty
Acknowledgments
About the Author
Copyright
About the Publisher








Everything I Knew About Love as a Teenager
Romantic love is the most important and exciting thing in the entire world.
If you don’t have it when you’re a proper grown-up then you have failed, just like so many of my art teachers who I have noted are “Miss” instead of “Mrs.” and have frizzy hair and ethnic jewelry.
It is important to have a lot of sex with a lot of people but probably no more than ten.
When I’m a single woman in London I will be extremely elegant and slim and wear black dresses and drink martinis and will only meet men at book launches and at exhibition openings.
The mark of true love is when two boys get in a physical fight over you. The sweet spot is drawn blood but no one having to go to the hospital. One day this will happen to me, if I’m lucky.
It is important to lose your virginity after your seventeenth birthday, but before your eighteenth birthday. Literally, even if it’s just the day before, that’s fine, but if you go into your eighteenth year still a virgin you will never have sex.
You can snog as many people as you like and that’s fine, it doesn’t mean anything, it’s just practice.
The coolest boys are always 