




























PENGUIN WORKSHOP
An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC
1745 Broadway, New York, New York 10019

First published in the United States of America by Penguin Workshop, an imprint of Penguin Random House LLC, 2025
Text copyright © 2025 by Stefany Valentine Ramirez
Illustrations copyright © 2025 by Babeth Lafon
Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems.
PENGUIN is a registered trademark and PENGUIN WORKSHOP is a trademark of Penguin Books Ltd, and the W colophon is a registered trademark of Penguin Random House LLC.
Visit us online at penguinrandomhouse.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available.
Ebook ISBN 9780593750971
Design by Mary Claire Cruz, adapted for ebook by Michelle Quintero
This book is a work of fiction. Any references to historical events, real people, or real places are used fictitiously. Other names, characters, places, and events are products of the author’s imagination, and any resemblance to actual events or places or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
The publisher does not have any control over and does not assume any responsibility for author or third-party websites or their content.
pid_prh_7.0a_149834111_c0_r0









To my biological parents, this story would not exist without your story—SV











破碎的心，破碎的家
Broken Hearts and Broken Homes
If home is where the heart is, then a broken home must mean that a heart is broken, too. Especially right now, since I’m supposed to be leaving for Salt Lake City. Instead of packing, I’m lying on my stomach while carpet fibers tickle that part of my waistline where my Del Rey High shirt has risen. No matter how many times I’ve vacuumed this floor, it still smells like cigarettes from the previous renters. My wrist cramps from holding my head up. I have boxes to take down to the car, yet I can’t stop staring at the Polaroid of my chubby three-year-old self in the arms of a biological mother whose name is about the only thing I remember.
Ya-Fang and I smile for the camera in front of a pagoda. The pillars are as red as the lanterns lining the streets. The doorways are accented by a gold so vibrant that even in this outdated photograph, it reflects the sunlight of a bright Taiwan day. But where exactly was this picture taken? Was it in Taipei, the city where I was born? Or was it Keelung, the city Ya-Fang grew up in?
No matter how badly I want to ask Ya-Fang, I c