In Praise of Computer Networks: A Systems
Approach
Peterson and Davie have written an outstanding book for the computer network-
ing world. It is a well-organized book that features a very helpful “big picture”
systems approach. This book is a must have!
Yonshik Choi
Illinois Institute of Technology
What you hold in your hands is the most comprehensive textbook on Computer
Networks available. Whether you are introducing undergraduates to Networks
for the ﬁrst time or expanding the knowledge of graduate students, the mate-
rial those students need to know lies in these pages. The text builds one concept
on another, starting with encoding of bits and proceeding logically to the global
Internet and the applications that run on it. I trusted the 5th edition for years and
am excited to entrust my students and the networked future they create to this
new 6th edition.
Christopher (Kit) Cischke
Michigan Technological University
I have used Computer Networks: A Systems Approach for over ﬁve years in an
introductory course on communications networks aimed at upper-level under-
graduates and ﬁrst-year Masters students. I have gone through several editions
and over the years the book has kept what from the beginning had been its
main strength, namely, that it not only describes the ‘how,’ but also the ‘why’
and equally important, the ‘why not’ of things. It is a book that builds engineering
intuition, and in this day and age of fast-paced technology changes, this is critical
to develop a student’s ability to make informed decisions on how to design or
select the next generation systems.
Roch Guerin
University of Pennsylvania
This book is an outstanding introduction to computer networks that is clear, com-
prehensive, and chock-full of examples. Peterson and Davie have a gift for boiling
networking down to simple and manageable concepts without compromising
technical rigor. Computer Networks: A Systems Approach strikes an excellent
balance between the principles underlying network architecture design and the
applications built on top. It should prove invaluable to students and teachers of
advanced undergraduate and graduate networking courses.
Arvind Krishnamurthy
University of Washington
Computer Networks: A Systems Approach has always been one of the best
resources available to gain an in-depth understanding of computer networks. The
latest edition covers recent developments in the ﬁeld. Starting with an overview
in Chapter 1, the authors systematically explain the basic building blocks of
networks. Both hardware and software concepts are presented. The material
is capped with a ﬁnal chapter on applications, which brings all the concepts
together. Optional advanced topics are placed in a separate chapter. The text-
book also contains a set of exercises of varying difﬁculty at the end of each chapter
which ensure that the students have mastered the material presented.
Karkal Prabhu
Drexel University
Peterson and Davie provide a detailed yet clear description