














Fundamentals of Enterprise Architecture
Proven Frameworks for Effective Architecture Decisions
Tanusree McCabe










Fundamentals of Enterprise Architecture
by Tanusree  McCabe
Copyright © 2024 Tanusree McCabe. All rights reserved.
Printed in the United States of America.
Published by O’Reilly Media, Inc., 1005 Gravenstein Highway North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.
O’Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles (https://oreilly.com). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department: 800-998-9938 or corporate@oreilly.com.

Acquisitions Editor: Louise Corrigan
Development Editor: Corbin Collins
    
Production Editor: Gregory Hyman

Copyeditor:
       nSight, Inc.
    

Proofreader:
       Helena Stirling
    

Indexer:
       Ellen Troutman-Zaig
    
Interior Designer: David Futato
Cover Designer: Karen Montgomery
Illustrator: Kate Dullea


September 2024: First Edition



Revision History for the First Edition

2024-09-05: First Release


See http://oreilly.com/catalog/errata.csp?isbn=9781098159375 for release details.

The O’Reilly logo is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. Fundamentals of Enterprise Architecture, the cover image, and related trade dress are trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc.
The views expressed in this work are those of the author and do not represent the publisher’s views. While the publisher and the author have used good faith efforts to ensure that the information and instructions contained in this work are accurate, the publisher and the author disclaim all responsibility for errors or omissions, including without limitation responsibility for damages resulting from the use of or reliance on this work. Use of the information and instructions contained in this work is at your own risk. If any code samples or other technology this work contains or describes is subject to open source licenses or the intellectual property rights of others, it is your responsibility to ensure that your use thereof complies with such licenses and/or rights.


978-1-098-15937-5
[LSI]









Preface
Who Should Read This Book? 
Conventions Used in This Book
O’Reilly Online Learning
How to Contact Us
Acknowledgments
1. Key Enterprise Architecture Concepts
Why Enterprise Architecture?
Avoiding Silos
Avoiding Chaos
Avoiding Technical Debt
Summarizing the Benefits

What Is the Practice of Enterprise Architecture?
The Vision
The Mission
What Are the Functions of Enterprise Architecture?
Enterprise Architecture Strategy
Enterprise Architecture Enablement
Enterprise Architecture Oversight

What Are Typical Architecture Roles?
Enterprise Architect Role
Solution Architect Role
Application Architect Role
Comparing Typical Architect Roles
Specialized Functions

Organizational Model
Centralized Architecture
Federated Architecture
Hybrid Architecture

What Are Typical Architecture Deliverables?
Architecture Decision Delive