
















Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life?
An absolutely hilarious, laugh-out-loud page-turner











Kristen Bailey





















Books by Kristen Bailey







Can I Give My Husband Back?
Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life?












Available in audio


Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life? (available in the UK and the US)











Contents



Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Epilogue




Hear More from Kristen


Books by Kristen Bailey


A Letter from Kristen


Acknowledgements

















Prologue





Back then I wouldn’t have said I was a bitch exactly, but I was all the things that came from being a young professional Londoner: I was broadly cynical, deep into a free overdraft, my bloodstream was a mix of takeaways and watered-down cocktails, and I was prone to meltdowns over stolen teabags and my flatmates interrupting my sleep. I was a city girl working in magazine publishing, so naturally I was also a superficial douche. This was why when I first met Danny Morton, I was obsessed by his spectacularly ugly shoes. Footwear that hideous will brand itself into a girl’s memory; that and the moment I barged past, half-cut, spilling my overpriced White Russian all over him.
‘Oh bollocks…! Wow…’ I said the wow as I glanced down at his shoes being showered in my cocktail. Maybe the drink would make them less ugly? I giggled to myself. We were in a Soho pub, full of London’s finest cosmopolitan wankery, loafers and neon trainers and this gentleman had on clumpy walking boots, like he was setting off up a mountain or had come to fix my sink. ‘Those look sturdy.’
He wasn’t impressed or bothered. ‘Where I come from, a lass would apologise.’
‘Oooooh, “Where I come from”?’ I mimicked his broad Northern accent. I couldn’t pinpoint it. North for me was anywhere past Brent Cross. ‘Manchester?’ That’s North.
He eyeballed me. Was he handsome? Frankly who knew, I was so boozed up. He held out a hand.
‘Danny Morton, how do you do…’
I really was drunk. I curtseyed.
‘Meg Callaghan, very well, thank you.’ I said with a strange affected posh voice.
He smiled. ‘I haven’t had an apology yet.’
‘Sorry?’
‘You don’t sound sure about that?’
‘You’re a bit bolshy.’
‘You’re a bit rude.’ He turned his back to me. ‘Fookin’ Southerners.’
I’m not sure why but this struck a chord that I couldn’t ignore. I was never precious about where I was from or who I was. I quite liked being a Londoner; it meant that I was trendy, metropolitan and globally aware by association. But he was surly and quite frankly, a bit of a tit. Have I mentioned I was also very drunk?
‘Oh piss off, fucking Liam Gallagher.’
I’m not sure why I compared him to Liam Gallagher; it may have been the ape like persona and the fact I’d committed to him hailing from Manchester, but Britpop was al