











ContentsAlso By Dr. Sue Johnson
Dedication
Epigraph
Introduction
PART ONE: A New Light on Love
Love — A Revolutionary New View
Where Did Our Love Go? Losing Connection
Emotional Responsiveness — The Key to a Lifetime of Love
PART TWO: Seven Transforming Conversations
Conversation 1: Recognizing the Demon Dialogues
Conversation 2: Finding the Raw Spots
Conversation 3: Revisiting a Rocky Moment
Conversation 4: Hold Me Tight — Engaging and Connecting
Conversation 5: Forgiving Injuries
Conversation 6: Bonding Through Sex and Touch
Conversation 7: Keeping Your Love Alive
PART THREE: The Power of Hold Me Tight
Healing Traumatic Wounds — The Power of Love
Ultimate Connection — Love as the Final Frontier
Acknowledgments
Glossary
For more information on EFT
References
About the Author






Copyright © 2008 by Susan Johnson
All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
Little, Brown and Company
Hachette Book Group
237 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017
Visit our Web site at www.HachetteBookGroup.com
First eBook Edition: April 2008
First stanza from “Dance Me to the End of Love” from Stranger Music: Selected Poems and Songs by Leonard Cohen © 1993. Published by McClelland & Stewart Ltd. Used with permission of the publisher. “Late Fragment” from A New Path to the Waterfall (1989) by Raymond Carver, reprinted by permission of Grove Press, a division of Grove/Atlantic, Inc.
ISBN: 978-0-316-03199-8








ALSO BY DR. SUE JOHNSON
The Practice of Emotionally Focused Couple Therapy: Creating Connection
Emotionally Focused Couple Therapy with Trauma Survivors: Strengthening Attachment Bonds











To my clients and colleagues, who have helped me to understand love.
To my partner, John, and my children, Tim, Emma, and Sarah, who have taught me how to feel it and give it.











Dance me to your beauty
with a burning violin
Dance me through the panic
till I’m gathered safely in
Lift me like an olive branch
and be my homeward dove
Dance me to the end of love
—LEONARD COHEN











Introduction
I have always been fascinated by relationships. I grew up in Britain, where my dad ran a pub, and I spent a lot of time watching people meeting, talking, drinking, brawling, dancing, flirting. But the focal point of my young life was my parents’ marriage. I watched helplessly as they destroyed their marriage and themselves. Still, I knew they loved each other deeply. In my father’s last days, he wept raw tears for my mother although they had been separated for more than twenty years.
My response to my parents’ pain was to vow never to get married. Romantic love was, I decided, an illusion and a trap. I was better off on my own, free and unfettered. But then, of course, I fell in love and married. Love pulled me in even as I