THE HBR GUIDE TO THINKING SMART ABOUT THE NUMBERS
How Finance Works
MIHIR A. DESAI
H A R VA R D  B U S I N E S S  R E V I E W  P R E S S
“ As a chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer, I recognize how critical it is to 
communicate ﬁnancial intuitions clearly, early, and often 
within an organ ization. Within technology companies, ﬁ-
nancial ﬂuency is an essential component of evaluating new 
and disruptive innovations, and the ability to bridge tech-
nology and ﬁnance is not widespread. For ﬁnance prac ti-
tion ers and general man ag ers, Mihir’s book provides the 
perfect combination of intuitive explanations, con temporary 
examples, and rigor so that both ﬁnance pros and novices 
can truly enhance their capabilities.”
— HELEN RILEY, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, X
“ Professor Desai’s class at Harvard Business School was one 
of my favorites  because it helped me understand critical ﬁ-
nancial questions that underpin  every industry, including 
technology. This book re- creates that experience by combin-
ing Desai’s methods of teaching the fundamentals, giving 
students the tools to build intuition, and testing  those skills 
through a variety of real- life cases. Informative and engaging, 
this book  will arm you with knowledge and, more impor tant, 
help build your intuition around a variety of ﬁnancial and 
business- related situations. This is a must- read for business 
students and aspiring business leaders—or anyone looking 
to deepen their understanding of ﬁnance.”
— MARNE LEVINE, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Instagram
“ Professor Desai has accomplished a rare feat: transforming 
the typically complex and often dry subject of ﬁnance into 
a lively and accessible tour de force, without trivializing its 
importance. On the contrary, he persuasively argues that ﬁ-
nance is the lifeblood of the economy and therefore a construct 
every one should understand. But it’s not just about crunching 
numbers and knowing how to read a balance sheet, both of 
which are lucidly explained  here. As in his previous work, 
Professor Desai takes pains to remind us of the larger issues 
at stake: the true essence of ﬁnance is about information and 
incentives and trying to solve capitalism’s fundamental prob-
lem of allocating capital to generate value. As the CEO of 
a ﬁrm dedicated to long- term investing, I  wholeheartedly 
welcome the light he casts on creating and mea sur ing that 
value.”
— CYRUS TARAPOREVALA, President and CEO,  
State Street Global Advisors
“ Professor Mihir Desai’s advice— both practical and witty— 
was an inspiration when I was a student at Harvard Busi-
ness School and a guiding light for me as an entrepreneur 
just starting out on my S’well journey. I’m thrilled that he’s 
written this book so that even more  people can beneﬁt from 
his wisdom!”
— SARAH KAUSS, founder and CEO, S’well
“ To  those who are not in the discipline, ﬁnance is like a riddle 
wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma, ﬁlled with buzzwords, 
accounting ratios, and complex institutional d