
















How Much Wine Will Fix My Broken Heart?
An utterly laugh-out-loud and unputdownable page-turner











Kristen Bailey





















Books by Kristen Bailey






Am I Allergic to Men?
How Much Wine Will Fix My Broken Heart?
Did My Love Life Shrink in the Wash?
Can I Give My Husband Back?
Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life?












Available in audio


How Much Wine Will Fix My Broken Heart? (available in the UK and the US)
Did My Love Life Shrink in the Wash? (available in the UK and the US)
Can I Give My Husband Back? (available in the UK and the US)
Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life? (available in the UK and the US)











Contents



Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Epilogue




Has Anyone Seen My Sex Life?


Hear More from Kristen


Books by Kristen Bailey


A Letter from Kristen


Am I Allergic to Men?


Did My Love Life Shrink in the Wash?


Can I Give My Husband Back?


Acknowledgements


*














For Grace Green
1992–2016














Prologue






Gracie,

If you have this letter then I am afraid the worst has happened and I’m not here any more. I don’t want to use the d-word so I will paraphrase in the best way possible: my body has literally given up on me. Stupid body. It’s quite a thing to have to write this letter before the event, to stare down this very possibility myself, but I don’t want to be gone and, basically, not have the final word. God, that’s awful to write, eh? I don’t want to be lying on my deathbed and forget to tell you something.
There’s only the one letter. I won’t spring these on you once a year or send Christmas cards from beyond the grave. This is it. I may come back and haunt you, though. Once I cross over to the other side, I’ll enquire about how I can make that happen. Fear not, it won’t be like a horror film. I won’t stand in dark corners and hide under the bed in a freaky haunted doll way. I’ll be a friendly ghost like in a BBC sitcom. I’ll be very benign. I hope I might have the ability to fly through walls. That’ll be handy as I have a feeling you’ll still need me to put the bins out. I’ll just appear when you’re brushing your teeth, give you the occasional fright. Boo! Remember me?
There are so many other things to tell you. I feel I need to give you lists of PIN numbers and passwords. Grace2000 is the password for most of my things. But for my email, it’s monkeyballs1992, which I hope will make you laugh. What else? Make sure you give my clothes away. Don’t keep them because that’s sad. What are you going to do with them? You could wear all of them at the same time and just lie in bed and pretend I’m there. Or make a patchwork blanket out of all my best hoodies. Don’t frame the clothes.
Also, while I have this platform, it’s important