













How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...








How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...


How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...








How to Talk to Anyone - 92 Little Tricks...


Introduction
How to Get Anything You Want from Anybody (Well, at Least Have the Best Crack at It!)
Have you ever admired those successful people who seem tohave it all? You see them 
        chatting confidently at business meetings or comfortably at social parties. Theyre the 
        ones with the best jobs, the nicest spouses, the finest friends, the biggest bank 
        accounts, or the most fashionable zip codes.
But wait a minute! A lot of them arent smarter than you. Theyre not more educated than 
        you. Theyre not even better looing! So what is it? (Some people suspect they inherited 
        it. Others say they married it or were just plain lucky. Tell them to think again.) What 
        it boils down to is their more skillful way of deaing with fellow human beings.
You see, nobody gets to the top alone. Over the years, people who seem to have it all have 
        captured the hearts and conquered the minds of hundreds of others who helped boost them, 
        rung by rung, to the top of whatever corporate or social ladder they chose.
Wanna-bes wandering around at the foot of the ladder often gaze up and grouse that the big 
        boys and big girls at the top are snobs. When big players dont give them their friendship, 
        love, or business, they call them cliquish or accuse them of belonging to an old-boy 
        network. Some grumble they hit their heads against a glass ceiling.
The complaining Little Leaguers never realize the rejection was their own fault. Theyll 
        never know they blew the affair, the friendship, or the deal because of their own communications fubles. Its as though 
        well-liked people have a bag of tricks, a magic, or a Midas touch that turns everything 
        they do into success.
Whats in their bag of tricks? Youll find a lot of things: a sustance that solidifies 
        friendships, a wizardry that wins minds, and a magic that makes people fall in love with 
        them. They also posess a quality that makes bosses hire and then promote, a chara
        teristic that keeps clients coming back, and an asset that makes customers buy from them 
        and not the competition. We all have a few of those tricks in our bags, some more than 
        others. Those with a whole lot of them are big winners in life. How to Talk to Anyone 
        gives you ninety-two of these little tricks they use every day so you, too, can play the 
        game to perfection and get whatever you want in life.
How the Little Tricks Were Unveiled
Many years ago, a drama teacher, exasperated at my bad acting in a college play, shouted, 
        No! No! Your body is belying your words. Every tiny movement, every body position, he 
        howled, divulges your private thoughts. Your face can make seven