Experiment
Q1-1
English (Official)
Earth's magnetic field measurement (10 points)
Introduction
This problem aims to measure the horizontal component of the Earth's magnetic field. A magnet will
first be characterized using a so called Gouy balance, before being used to measure this magnetic field.
In the entire problem, uncertainties are expected to be determined only from the fits and not from the
individual experimental points.
Equipment list
Fig. 1. Photographs of all equipment.
The list of equipment is given below and illustrated in Fig. 1. The number of items is indicated between
[] when it is greater than one. Students should ask for help if something appears not to be working.
• (a) Magnets [3]. One magnet is attached to the force sensor (b) and should not be removed. An-
other magnet is inserted into the pod (f) and should not be removed until specified. The last one
will be used in A.5. All magnets are supposed identical.
• (b) Force sensor. Connected to the Arduino (c), this sensor measures the force along its axis, noted
𝑚f, in grams-force ("g"), which is the force experienced by a 1-gram mass on the earth's surface in
the gravity field (𝑔0 = 9.81m⋅s−2) . One of the magnets (a) is attached to it. Each time it is switched
back on, the sensor display is reset to 0, regardless of the situation. This sensor must not be subjected
to forces in excess of 200 grams. It needs to be unpacked carefully.
• (c) Arduino with digital display. This element is used to power the coils (e) and to perform force
and magnetic field measurements, displayed directly in gram-force ("g") and mT. The battery (j)
powering the Arduino must be connected to slot (i), and the battery (j) powering the coils (e) to slot
(ii) (pay attention to connection polarity). The force sensor (b) and magnetic field sensor (d) should
be connected to slots (iv) and (iii) respectively, and the coil power cables to slots (v). A switch (vi)
closes the coil supply circuit (indicated by an LED), whose electric current can be controlled in (vii).
Experiment
Q1-2
English (Official)
• (d) Magnetic field sensor with ruler. Connected to the Arduino (c), this probe measures the field 𝐵𝑧
along the direction −→
𝑒𝑧of the ruler, in mT.
• (e) Coils in anti-Helmholtz configuration (wound in opposite directions). These coils must be con-
nected in series with the ammeter (g) and to the Arduino (c) to create a magnetic field.
• (f) Metallic stand on a wooden base, with suspended pod where a magnet (a) is initially inserted,
and with angle markers. The detailed assembly of this device is explained below.
• (g) Multimeter. Only used as an ammeter at the 10A range. If left inactive, the multimeter switches
off, and must be switched back on by returning it to the “OFF” position. Do not use the two cables
supplied in the multimeter case.
• (h) Electric wires [3].
• (i) 40cm ruler.
• (j) 9V batteries [3]. Their capacity is of the order of 300mA⋅h.
• (k) Chronometer.
• (l) Adhesive paste. Can be used for the