Theory
Q3-1
English (Official)
Champagne! (10 points)
Warning: Excessive alcohol consumption is harmful to health and drinking alcohol below legal age is
prohibited.
Champagne is a French sparkling wine. Fermentation of sugars produces
carbon dioxide (CO2) in the bottle. The molar concentration of CO2 in the
liquid phase 𝑐ℓand the partial pressure 𝑃CO2 in the gas phase are related
by 𝑐ℓ= 𝑘H𝑃CO2, known as Henry's law and where 𝑘H is called Henry's con-
stant.
Data
• Surface tension of champagne 𝜎= 47×10−3 J⋅m−2
• Density of the liquid 𝜌ℓ= 1.0×103 kg⋅m−3
• Henry's constant at 𝑇0 = 20°C, 𝑘H(20°C) = 3.3×10−4 mol⋅m−3 ⋅Pa−1
• Henry's constant at 𝑇0 = 6°C, 𝑘H(6°C) = 5.4×10−4 mol⋅m−3 ⋅Pa−1
• Atmospheric pressure 𝑃0 = 1bar = 1.0×105 Pa
• Gases are ideal with an adiabatic coefficient 𝛾= 1.3
Fig.
1.
A glass filled with
champagne.
Part A. Nucleation, growth and rise of bubbles
Immediately after opening a bottle of champagne at temperature 𝑇0 = 20°C , we fill a glass. The pressure
in the liquid is 𝑃0 and its temperature stays constant at 𝑇0. The concentration 𝑐ℓof dissolved CO2 exceeds
the equilibrium concentration and we study the nucleation of a CO2 bubble. We note 𝑎its radius and 𝑃b
its inner pressure.
A.1
Express the pressure 𝑃b in terms of 𝑃0, 𝑎and 𝜎.
0.2pt
In the liquid, the concentration of dissolved CO2 depends on the distance to the bubble. At long distance
we recover the value 𝑐ℓand we note 𝑐b the concentration close to the bubble surface. According to
Henry's law, 𝑐b = 𝑘H𝑃b. We furthermore assume in all the problem that bubbles contain only CO2.
Since 𝑐ℓ≠𝑐b, CO2 molecules diffuse from areas of high to low concentration. We assume also that any
molecule from the liquid phase reaching the bubble surface is transferred to the vapour.
A.2
Express the critical radius 𝑎c above which a bubble is expected to grow in terms
of 𝑃0,𝜎,𝑐ℓand 𝑐0 where 𝑐0 = 𝑘H𝑃0. Calculate numerically 𝑎c for 𝑐ℓ= 4𝑐0.
0.5pt
In practice, bubbles mainly grow from pre-existing gas cavities. Consider then a bubble with initial radius
𝑎0 ≈40µm. The number of moles of CO2 transferred at the bubble's surface per unit area and time is noted
𝑗. Two models are possible for 𝑗.
• model (1) 𝑗= 𝐷
𝑎(𝑐ℓ−𝑐b) where 𝐷is the diffusion coefficient of CO2 in the liquid.
• model (2) 𝑗= 𝐾(𝑐ℓ−𝑐b) where 𝐾is a constant here.
Experimentally, the bubble radius 𝑎(𝑡) is found to depend on time as shown in Fig. 2. Here 𝑐ℓ≈4𝑐0, and
since bubbles are large enough to be visible, the excess pressure due to surface tension can be neglected
and 𝑃b ≈𝑃0.
Theory
Q3-2
English (Official)
A.3
Express the number of CO2 moles in the bubble 𝑛c in terms of 𝑎,𝑃0,𝑇0 and ideal
gas constant 𝑅. Find 𝑎(𝑡) for both models. Indicate which model explains the
experimental results in Fig. 2. Depending on your answer, calculate numeri-
cally 𝐾or 𝐷.
1.2pt
Fig. 2. Time evolution of CO2 bubble radius in a glass of champagne (adapted from [1]).
Eventually bubbles detach from the bottom of the glass and continue to grow while rising. Fig. 3. sho