Advance Praise for 
Science, the Endless Frontier
“Rush Holt gives new life to Vannevar Bush’s seminal 
report Science, the Endless Frontier by emphasizing its 
continued relevance to American science policy and rais­
ing issues that need reexamination—in par­tic­u­lar, the 
relationship between the scientific enterprise and civil 
society. This is an impor­tant read for every­one who is 
deeply concerned about the status of science in ­today’s 
discourse.”
—­Ernest J. Moniz, Mas­sa­chu­setts Institute of 
Technology and former U.S. Secretary of Energy
“In his companion essay to this new edition of Science, 
the Endless Frontier—­the blueprint for American sci­
ence since World War II—­Rush Holt argues that a more 
expansive philosophical vision of the value of science is 
needed, one that embraces the public as a more equal 
partner. Hoorah for Holt, for having the courage to take 
on this impor­tant, timely issue.”
—­Naomi Oreskes, author of Why Trust Science?
“Vannevar Bush’s Science, the Endless Frontier remains 
the touchstone for understanding how Americans regard 
basic research, why they pay for it, and what benefits 
they expect. ­These issues are more urgent than ever. 
How can the United States channel science and technol­
ogy for public good and social justice, not only economic 
growth? Rush Holt offers incisive reflections on Bush’s 
blind spots and bold plan, making this the definitive edi­
tion for our era.”
—­Angela N. H. Creager, Prince­ton University
“Vannevar Bush’s Science, the Endless Frontier had an 
im­mense influence on the development of U.S. science 
and technology as forces for public good. In his superb 
introductory essay for the reissue of this pioneering doc­
ument, Rush Holt provides a deeply insightful discus­
sion, not only of what Bush’s blueprint achieved, but also 
what it missed and how this shortfall can be remedied.”
—­John Holdren, Harvard University and former 
chief science advisor to President Obama
“With the reissue of Science, the Endless Frontier, I am 
once more struck by the majesty of Vannevar Bush’s vi­
sion for the role of science. His document serves as a 
prescient reminder as the United States ­faces the chal­
lenges of a new ­century. Adding a needed retrospective, 
Rush Holt’s companion essay calls for a more robust 
conversation among STEM researchers, social scientists, 
and the public, and strongly resonates with my experi­
ences in public policy.”
—­Sylvester James Gates Jr., Brown University
“Since World War II, Science, the Endless Frontier has 
been the central model for science policy in the United 
States. This welcome new edition combines Vannevar 
Bush’s classic text with an urgent essay by Rush Holt on 
what the model can and cannot do for us in the twenty-­
first ­century. This is essential reading for anyone who 
cares about the ­future of science in Amer­i­ca.”
—­Audra J. Wolfe, author of Freedom’s Laboratory: 
The Cold War Strug­gle for the Soul of Science
“Science, the End