















 
 
 
 
 
Lust Free In 31 Days
 
Christian Men Overcoming Lust, Porn, Sex Addiction and Masturbation
 
By: Ernest Christo
 









Publisher Copyright
               
Ernest Christo
P.O. Box 51623
Sarasota, Fl 34232
 
 
Copyright, Legal Notice and Disclaimer:
 
This publication is protected under the US Copyright Act of 1976 and all other applicable international, federal, state and local laws, and all rights are reserved, including resale rights: you are not allowed to give or sell this Guide to anyone else. Please note that much of this publication is based on personal experience and anecdotal evidence. Although the author and publisher have made every reasonable attempt to achieve complete accuracy of the content in this Guide, they assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. Also, you should use this information as you see fit, and at your own risk. Your particular situation may not be exactly suited to the examples illustrated here; in fact, it's likely that they won't be the same, and you should adjust your use of the information and recommendations accordingly. Any trademarks, service marks, product names or named features are assumed to be the property of their respective owners, and are used only for reference. There is no implied endorsement if we use one of these terms. Finally, use your head. Nothing in this Guide is intended to replace common sense, legal, medical or other professional advice.  We hope you benefit from this edition of “Lust Free In 31 Days”  from Ernest Christo. Copyright © 2013. All rights reserved worldwide.
 
 
 
 









 
Message from the Author
 
Hello I'm Ernest, there are a few reasons why I want to continue to improve in the area of sexual purity. The first reason is because God desires that I work at being more obedient in this area. Another reason is because when I am obedient to the Lord’s desires, I am used by Him in greater measures. Therefore, more people experience miracles, signs and wonders through the Holy Spirit flowing through my life. It’s all about my relationship with God. 
 
Ernest Christo
 
 
 









 
Table Of Contents
 
Introduction
Day One: Repent
Day Two: Everything Starts With A Thought
Day 3: Dealing With Negative Emotions
Day 4: From The Neck Up
Day 5: Shooting Jackrabbits
Day 6: God Will Use You More
Day 7: Never Wear Sunglasses
Day 8: Don’t Be Ashamed of The Gospel
Day 9: Leave Those Things Behind
Day 10: This Is The Key To Winning The Battle
Day 11: Impaired Thoughts and Drinking Alcohol
Day 12: Showers of Sin or Cleansing
Day 13: Don’t Get Dragged Away
Day 14: Position Yourself For Purity
Day 15: Love God In Your Mind
Day 16: Devotion To Doing What Is Good
Day 17: The Importance of Fellowship
Day 18: Stop Looking For Something New
Day 19: Don’t Push God Aside When He Butts In
Day 20: Starting Over
Day 21: Don’t Let Sin Keep You Down
Day 22: Be Kind to Yourself
Day 23: Where To Find Your Strength Everyday
Day 24: Singleness of Heart
Day 25: Use Everythi