Professional
Topic
Thinking Skills
Subtopic
Strategic 
Thinking Skills
Course Guidebook
Professor Stanley K. Ridgley
Drexel University
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westﬁ elds Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2012
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
i
Stanley K. Ridgley, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor 
Department of Management
Drexel University
P
rofessor Stanley K. Ridgley is Assistant 
Professor in the Department of Management 
at Drexel University’s LeBow College of 
Business. He earned a B.A. in Journalism from 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, an 
M.A. in Political Science from Duke University, an M.B.A. in International 
Business from Temple University, and a Ph.D. in International Relations 
from Duke University. He has also studied at Lomonosov Moscow State 
University and the Institut de Gestion Sociale in Paris. Prior to joining 
the faculty at Drexel, Professor Ridgley was an Assistant Professor of 
International Business and Strategic Management at the Fox School of 
Business at Temple University.
Professor Ridgley teaches courses on global business policies, international 
business fundamentals, competitive intelligence, strategic management 
and entrepreneurship, and advanced strategic business presentations. 
He has lectured and presented widely to university students and business 
professionals in the United States, Russia, India, France, Colombia, and 
Singapore. While teaching at Temple University, he received the Musser 
Award for Excellence in Leadership.
As a presentation coach for teams of business students, Professor Ridgley 
coached the winning team for Target Corporation’s annual Business Case 
Competition at Temple University in 2010 and 2009 and coached an 
Indian M.B.A. team’s winning presentation in the All India Management 
Association’s 2009 National Competition for Young Managers. He also 
is the voice and face of Pearson Education’s online Business Presentation 
Instruction Module.
