About the Author 
The chair once occupied by Orison Swett Marden, W. 
Clement Stone, Napoleon Hill, and Og Mandino is where 
SUCCESS publisher and editorial director Darren Hardy now 
sits. Darren has been a leader in the personal-development 
industry for sixteen years, having led two personal-
development-based television networks—The People’s 
Network (TPN), and The Success Training Network (TSTN)—
producing and launching more 
than a thousand TV shows, 
live events, and products 
and programs with many of 
the world’s top experts. 
Darren is a product of 
the principles he reveals in 
The Compound Effect. As an 
entrepreneur, Darren was 
earning a six-figure income by age eighteen, more than a 
million dollars a year by age twenty-four, and he owned a 
company producing $50 million a year in revenue by age 
twenty-seven. He has mentored thousands of entrepreneurs, 
advised many large corporations, and serves on the board 
of several companies and nonprofit organizations. 
As publisher and editorial director of SUCCESS 
magazine, Darren is in a unique position to interview 
leading experts on human performance and achievement, 
as well as many of today’s top CEOs, revolutionary 
entrepreneurs, superstar athletes, entertainers, and 
Olympic champions, to uncover and share the success 
secrets behind their extraordinary success. 
Each month in the pages of SUCCESS magazine, 
on his blog (http://DarrenHardy.SUCCESS.com), on 
Twitter (@DarrenHardy), Facebook (DarrenHardyFan), 
and before live audiences of entrepreneurs across the 
country, Darren distills the best of the best information 
and strategies available, mixing in his own street-tested 
principles of success. Darren’s passion for personal 
development is at the core of his business and life 
philosophy. He is committed to helping others achieve their 
potential in order to live richer, more fulfilling lives. 
Darren is a popular keynote speaker and 
appears regularly on national radio and TV shows 
for CNBC, MSNBC, CBS, ABC, and FOX. 
Do you want success? 
More success than you have now? 
And even more success than you ever 
imagined possible? 
That is what this book is about. 
Achieving it. 
No gimmicks. No hyperbole. Finally, just the 
truth on what it takes to earn success. 
As publisher of SUCCESS magazine, author Darren 
Hardy has heard it all, seen it all, and tried most 
of it. This book reveals the core principles that 
drive success. The Compound Effect contains the 
essence of what every superachiever needs to 
know, practice, and master to obtain extraordinary 
success. Inside you will find strategies on: 
• How to win—every time! The No. 1 strategy 
to achieve any goal and triumph over 
any competitor, even if they’re smarter, 
more talented or more experienced. 
• Eradicating your bad habits (some you might be 
unaware of!) that are derailing your progress. 
• Painlessly installing the few key disciplines 
required for major breakthroughs. 
• The real, lasting keys to mo