Physics
The Higgs Boson 
and Beyond 
Subtopic
Professor Sean Carroll
California Institute of Technology
Science  
& Mathematics
Topic
Course Guidebook
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westfields Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2015
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
i
Sean Carroll, Ph.D.
Research Professor of Physics 
California Institute of Technology
P
rofessor Sean Carroll is a Research 
Professor of Physics at the California 
Institute of Technology. He did his 
undergraduate work at Villanova University and 
received his Ph.D. in Astrophysics from Harvard 
in 1993. His research involves theoretical physics 
DQG DVWURSK\VLFV ZLWK D IRFXV RQ LVVXHV LQ FRVPRORJ\ ¿HOG WKHRU\ 
and gravitation.
Prior to arriving at Caltech, Professor Carroll taught and did research at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; the Kavli Institute for Theoretical 
Physics at the University of California, Santa Barbara; and the University 
of Chicago. His major contributions have included models of interactions 
among dark matter, dark energy, and ordinary matter; alternative theories 
of gravity; and violations of fundamental symmetries. His current research 
LQYROYHVWKHIRXQGDWLRQVRITXDQWXPPHFKDQLFVWKHSK\VLFVRILQÀDWLRQDU\
cosmology, and the origin of time asymmetry.
While at MIT, Professor Carroll won the Graduate Student Council Teaching 
Award for his course on general relativity, the lecture notes of which were 
expanded into the textbook Spacetime and Geometry: An Introduction to 
General Relativity, published in 2003. In 2006, he received the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences Alumni Medallion from Villanova University, and 
in 2010, he was elected a Fellow of the American Physical Society.
Professor Carroll is the author of From Eternity to Here: The Quest for the 
Ultimate Theory of Time, a popular book on cosmology and time. His latest 
book is The Particle at the End of the Universe, about the Higgs boson and 
the Large Hadron Collider. 
