 
Astronomy
Subtopic
Science  
& Mathematics
Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Death of
The Life and Stars
Keivan G. Stassun
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westﬁ elds Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2014
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
i
Keivan G. Stassun, Ph.D.
Professor of Physics and Astronomy
Vanderbilt University
P
rofessor Keivan G. Stassun is Professor 
of Physics and Astronomy at Vanderbilt 
University. He earned A.B. degrees in 
Physics and Astronomy as a Chancellor’s Scholar 
at the University of California, Berkeley, and was 
selected valedictorian of his graduating class in 
1994. He earned his Ph.D. in Astronomy in 2000 
as a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellow at the 
University of Wisconsin–Madison. His dissertation research focused on the 
birth of stars. Professor Stassun then served as assistant director of the NSF 
Graduate STEM Fellows in K–12 Education Program. This program connects 
graduate students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
(STEM) with K–12 schools, both to enhance science teaching and to provide 
leadership development for future college and university faculty. Professor 
Stassun served for two years as a postdoctoral research fellow with the 
NASA Hubble Space Telescope Program, studying newborn eclipsing binary 
stars, before joining the faculty of Vanderbilt University in 2003. He also 
holds the title of Adjunct Professor of Physics at Fisk University.
Professor Stassun’s research on the birth of stars, eclipsing binary stars, 
exoplanetary systems, and the Sun has appeared in the prestigious research 
journal Nature, has been featured on NPR’s Earth & Sky, and has been 
published in more than 100 peer-reviewed journal articles. In 2007, the 
Vanderbilt Initiative in Data-intensive Astrophysics (VIDA) was launched 
as a $4 million pilot program in astro-informatics, with Professor Stassun 
as its founding director. He served as chair of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey 
exoplanet science team, is a member of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope 
executive committee, and served on the National Research Council’s 
Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics.
Professor Stassun is a recipient of the prestigious CAREER Award from 
NSF and a Cottrell Scholar Award for excellence in research and university 
