Chapter 1
Oscillations
David Morin, morin@physics.harvard.edu
A wave is a correlated collection of oscillations. For example, in a transverse wave traveling
along a string, each point in the string oscillates back and forth in the transverse direc-
tion (not along the direction of the string). In sound waves, each air molecule oscillates
back and forth in the longitudinal direction (the direction in which the sound is traveling).
The molecules don’t have any net motion in the direction of the sound propagation. In
water waves, each water molecule also undergoes oscillatory motion, and again, there is no
overall net motion.1 So needless to say, an understanding of oscillations is required for an
understanding of waves.
The outline of this chapter is as follows.
In Section 1.1 we discuss simple harmonic
motion, that is, motioned governed by a Hooke’s law force, where the restoring force is
proportional to the (negative of the) displacement. We discuss various ways to solve for the
position x(t), and we give a number of examples of such motion. In Section 1.2 we discuss
damped harmonic motion, where the damping force is proportional to the velocity, which
is a realistic damping force for a body moving through a ﬂuid. We will ﬁnd that there are
three basic types of damped harmonic motion. In Section 1.3 we discuss damped and driven
harmonic motion, where the driving force takes a sinusoidal form. (When we get to Fourier
analysis, we will see why this is actually a very general type of force to consider.) We present
three diﬀerent methods of solving for the position x(t). In the special case where the driving
frequency equals the natural frequency of the spring, the amplitude becomes large. This is
called resonance, and we will discuss various examples.
1.1
Simple harmonic motion
1.1.1
Hooke’s law and small oscillations
Consider a Hooke’s-law force, F(x) = −kx. Or equivalently, consider the potential energy,
V (x) = (1/2)kx2. An ideal spring satisﬁes this force law, although any spring will deviate
signiﬁcantly from this law if it is stretched enough. We study this F(x) = −kx force because:
1The ironic thing about water waves is that although they might be the ﬁrst kind of wave that comes to
mind, they’re much more complicated than most other kinds. In particular, the oscillations of the molecules
are two dimensional instead of the normal one dimensional linear oscillations. Also, when waves “break”
near a shore, everything goes haywire (the approximations that we repeatedly use throughout this book
break down) and there ends up being some net forward motion. We’ll talk about water waves in Chapter
12.
1
2
CHAPTER 1. OSCILLATIONS
• We can study it.
That it, we can solve for the motion exactly.
There are many
problems in physics that are extremely diﬃcult or impossible to solve, so we might as
well take advantage of a problem we can actually get a handle on.
• It is ubiquitous in nature (at least approximately).
It holds in an exact sense for
an ideali