Advance praise for Frientimacy
“Every woman can relate to the feeling of having plenty of Facebook ‘friends’ or contacts to scroll
through in her phone but still longing for the intimate connections she had with childhood friends,
back when her BFF was her everything. I know I can. As I read through Nelson’s description of why
women experience loneliness—because we lack close connections, not because we don’t know
enough people—I found myself wondering how she got in my head. Anyone who has admired
intimate friendships in pop culture and wondered Why don’t I have that? will want to pick up this
book.”
—Rachel Bertsche, bestselling author of
MWF Seeking BFF: My Yearlong Search for a New Best Friend
“Shasta Nelson has put her finger on the pulse of our cultural malaise: We need good friends to have
a happy life, but we are disconnected from one another. Repair takes, insight, courage, and strength,
and Shasta provides outstanding encouragement for us to get up, snap ourselves out of our self-
defeating patterns, and create the friendships that our souls are longing for. Frientimacy has already
changed my life, and it will change yours.”
—Marilyn Paul, bestselling author of
It’s Hard to Make a Difference When You Can’t Find Your Keys
“If you desire friends you can count on and grow with, who will support and see you, who make your
life more full and fun, then you’ve got to read Frientimacy. Shasta Nelson has taken a bold stand to
end loneliness and replace it with the deep and nourishing bonds of sisterhood we all need and
crave.”
—Christine Arylo, bestselling author of
Madly in Love with ME and Reform Your Inner Mean Girl
“I used to get a terrible sinking feeling in my stomach when I read articles about how women with a
close circle of friends live longer. I had such a hard time developing satisfying friendships after a
certain age. I was lonely! But not anymore, and I attribute part of that ability to connect to Shasta
Nelson wisdom. If you want—and need!—deeper friendships, then please read this wise and useful
book.”
—Jennifer Louden, bestselling author of
The Woman’s Comfort Book and The Life Organizer
“Compassionate and encouraging, Shasta Nelson teaches how to not only make friends but create
deep connections and avoid ‘expectation hangovers’ in our friendships. I am so grateful for this book,
and all the loving, connected, and lasting friendships it will create.”
—Christine Hassler, bestselling author of
20 Something, 20 Everything
“The best friendships never have been simple. . . . Lo and behold, Shasta Nelson’s gentle urgings
toward self-improvement result in vastly more satisfying friendships.”
—Theresa Donovan Brown, co-author of
The Social Sex: A History of Female Friendship
“Even women with large numbers of friends yearn for close, intimate friendships: Relationships that
are easy and forgiving, and that allow friends to communicate in shorthand yet feel understood. In
Frientimacy, Shasta Nelson offers practical advice to help women ho