Matt Oswalt, 
Christian Adell, 
Scott S. Lowe &
 Jason Edelman
Network 
Programmability 
& Automation
Skills for the Next-Generation 
Network Engineer
Second 
Edition
SECURITY
“This book helps 
networking professionals 
and developers write 
clear, easily extensible 
network automation 
playbooks. It covers 
almost everything 
that you need to be at 
the helm of network 
automation.”
—Akhil Behl
Partner Manager, Red Hat
Network Programmability & Automation
Twitter: @oreillymedia
linkedin.com/company/oreilly-media
youtube.com/oreillymedia 
Network engineers are finding it harder than ever to rely 
solely on manual processes to get their jobs done. New 
protocols, technologies, delivery models, and the need 
for businesses to become more agile and flexible have 
made network automation essential. The updated second 
edition of this practical guide shows network engineers 
how to use a range of technologies and tools, covering the 
following topics:
•	 New Linux-based networking technologies and cloud 
native environments, and how to use them to bootstrap 
development environments for your network projects
•	 Programming skills with Python and Go
•	 How templating can help you build consistent network 
device configurations
•	 Data formats, encodings, and models: JSON, XML, 
YAML, Protobuf, and YANG
•	 The role of application programming interfaces (APIs) 
in network automation, including HTTP APIs, NETCONF, 
RESTCONF, and gNMI
•	 How to use version control systems like Git and 
development practices like continuous integration 
in your network automation projects
•	 How to automate network devices and services using 
Ansible, Nornir, and Terraform
•	 A holistic approach to architecting network 
automation solutions
Matt Oswalt is a senior systems 
engineer at Cloudflare, where he works 
on distributed systems and internet 
and web protocols. 
Christian Adell is a principal architect 
at Network to Code, with experience 
building and delivering network 
automation solutions for on-premises 
and cloud environments.
Scott Lowe works on the developer 
relations team at Pulumi, where he 
focuses on infrastructure as code 
and automating cloud infrastructure 
and services.
Jason Edelman is the founder and CTO 
at Network to Code, a leading network 
automation solutions provider. Jason 
founded Network to Code in 2014.
US $59.99	  CAN $74.99
ISBN: 978-1-098-11083-3
Praise for Network Programmability and Automation
I highly recommend this new edition of the book to anyone looking to improve their
network automation skills. The authors do an outstanding job of explaining complex
topics in a clear and concise way. They also provide a comprehensive overview of current
technology trends in the field, as well as architectural design options and methodologies
that you can use to achieve positive results for your organization. I found the book to be
very helpful and informative, and I am confident that you will too.
—Nicolas Leiva (Staff Solutions Architect at Re