














PRAISE FOR ALI HAZELWOOD
“A literary breakthrough. . . . The Love Hypothesis is a self-assured debut, and we hypothesize it’s just the first bit of greatness we’ll see from an author who somehow has the audacity to be both an academic powerhouse and [a] divinely talented novelist.”
—Entertainment Weekly
“Contemporary romance’s unicorn: the elusive marriage of deeply brainy and delightfully escapist. . . . The Love Hypothesis has wild commercial appeal, but the quieter secret is that there is a specific audience, made up of all the Olives in the world, who have deeply, ardently waited for this exact book.”
—New York Times bestselling author Christina Lauren
“With her sophomore novel, Ali Hazelwood proves that she is the perfect writer to show that science is sexy as hell, and that love can ‘STEM’ from the most unlikely places. She’s my newest must-buy author.”
—#1 New York Times bestselling author Jodi Picoult on Love on the Brain
“Whenever I want a sexy, witty, delicious romance, told in a fresh and intelligent voice, I read Ali Hazelwood. Prepare to get addicted. Each book is pure joy.”
—New York Times bestselling author Simone St. James
“Funny, sexy, and smart. Ali Hazelwood did a terrific job with The Love Hypothesis.”
—New York Times bestselling author Mariana Zapata
“Gloriously nerdy and sexy, with on-point commentary about women in STEM.”
—New York Times bestselling author Helen Hoang on Love on the Brain
“STEMinists, assemble. Your world is about to be rocked.”
—New York Times bestselling author Elena Armas on Love on the Brain
“This tackles one of my favorite tropes—Grumpy meets Sunshine—in a fun and utterly endearing way. . . . I loved the nods toward fandom and romance novels, and I couldn’t put it down. Highly recommended!”
—New York Times bestselling author Jessica Clare on The Love Hypothesis
“Ali Hazelwood finally gives us paranormal, with her trademark humor, twisty plot, and spice that doesn’t quit—buckle up.”
—New York Times bestselling author Hannah Whitten on Bride
“Hazelwood unleashes her sparkling voice and wit on a paranormal Romeo and Juliet.”
—International bestselling author Ruby Dixon on Bride
“The romance that blooms from a marriage of convenience is both tender and foxy, indisputably sexy and brimming with heart.”
—USA Today bestselling author Isabel Cañas on Bride
“The reigning queen of STEMinist rom-coms returns with a tale set in the cutthroat world of elite academia full of delightful humor, realistic emotions, and the messy search for self-acceptance.”
—Booklist (starred review) on Love, Theoretically
“A decidedly quirky and thoroughly charming tale. . . . Geeky science jokes, humorous student emails, and expertly delivered snarky banter enhance the narrative. Readers will cheer for Jack and Elsie and their bumpy road to happily ever after.”
—Publishers Weekly (starred review) on Love, Theoretically













SPHEREFirst published in the United States in 2024 by Berkley,an imprint of Penguin Rand