Course Guidebook
Professor Robert M. Hazen
George Mason University
The Origin and Evolution 
of Earth: From the 
Big Bang to the Future 
of Human Existence
Science  
& Mathematics
Topic
Earth Science
Subtopic
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westﬁ elds Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright © The Teaching Company, 2013
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved. 
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form, or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), 
without the prior written permission of
The Teaching Company.
Robert M. Hazen, Ph.D.
Clarence J. Robinson Professor
of Earth Sciences 
George Mason University
P
rofessor Robert M. Hazen is the Clarence J. 
Robinson Professor of Earth Sciences at 
George Mason University and a Senior Staff 
Scientist at the Carnegie Institution’s Geophysical 
Laboratory. He received his B.S. and S.M. in 
Geology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. at 
Harvard University in Earth Science. He was also a NATO Postdoctoral 
Fellow at Cambridge University.
Professor Hazen is the author of more than 380 articles and 25 books on 
science, history, and music. His most recent book is the critically acclaimed 
The Story of Earth: The First 4.5 Billion Years, from Stardust to Living 
Planet—a nominee for the 2013 Royal Society Winton Prize for Science 
Books. A Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, Professor Hazen has received the Mineralogical Society of 
America (MSA) Award and the MSA Distinguished Public Service Medal, 
the American Chemical Society Ipatieff Prize, the ASCAP Deems Taylor 
Award, and the Educational Press Association Award. In addition, he was the 
2012 recipient of the Outstanding Faculty Award given by the State Council 
of Higher Education for Virginia. Professor Hazen has presented numerous 
named lectures and was a Distinguished Lecturer for Sigma Xi. He also has 
served as a Distinguished Lecturer and President for the MSA. His recent 
research focuses on roles of minerals in life’s origins, including mineral-
catalyzed organic synthesis and selective adsorption of organic molecules 
on mineral surfaces. Professor Hazen also has developed a new approach to 
mineralogy, called mineral evolution, which explores the coevolution of the 
geo- and biospheres. The biomineral “hazenite” was named in his honor.
At George Mason University, Professor Hazen developed curricula on 
scientific literacy with Professor James Trefil. Their books include the 
i
