 
i
What Every Engineer Should 
Know about Software Engineering
This book offers a practical approach to understanding, designing, and building sound 
software based on solid principles. Using a unique Q&A format, this book addresses 
the issues that engineers need to understand in order to successfully work with soft­
ware engineers, develop specifications for quality software, and learn the basics of 
the most common programming languages, development approaches, and paradigms. 
The new edition is thoroughly updated to improve the pedagogical flow and empha­
size new software engineering processes, practices, and tools that have emerged in 
every software engineering area.
Features:
	•
Defines concepts and processes of software and software development, such as 
agile processes, requirements engineering, and software architecture, design, 
and construction.
	•
Uncovers and answers various misconceptions about the software develop­
ment process and presents an up-​to-​date reflection on the state of practice in 
the industry.
	•
Details how non-​software engineers can better communicate their needs to soft­
ware engineers and more effectively participate in design and testing to ultim­
ately lower software development and maintenance costs.
	•
Helps answer the question: How can I better leverage embedded software in 
my design?
	•
Adds new chapters and sections on software architecture, software engineering 
and systems, and software engineering and disruptive technologies, as well as 
information on cybersecurity.
	•
Features new appendices that describe a sample automation system, covering 
software requirements, architecture, and design.
This book is aimed at a wide range of engineers across many disciplines who work 
with software.
 
 
ii
What Every Engineer Should Know
Series Editor
Phillip A. Laplante
Pennsylvania State University
What Every Engineer Should Know about Developing Real-​Time Embedded Products
Kim R. Fowler
What Every Engineer Should Know about Business Communication
John X. Wang
What Every Engineer Should Know about Career Management
Mike Ficco
What Every Engineer Should Know about Starting a High-​Tech Business Venture
Eric Koester
What Every Engineer Should Know about MATLAB® and Simulink®
Adrian B. Biran
Green Entrepreneur Handbook: The Guide to Building and Growing a Green and 
Clean Business
Eric Koester
What Every Engineer Should Know about Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Joanna F. DeFranco
What Every Engineer Should Know about Modeling and Simulation
Raymond J. Madachy and Daniel Houston
What Every Engineer Should Know about Excel, Second Edition
J.P. Holman and Blake K. Holman
Technical Writing: A Practical Guide for Engineers, Scientists, and Nontechnical 
Professionals, Second Edition
Phillip A. Laplante
What Every Engineer Should Know about the Internet of Things
Joanna F. DeFranco and Mohamad Kassab
What Every Engineer Should Know about Software Engineering
Phillip A. Laplante and Mohamad Kassab
What Every E