Estimating the dynamic and aerodynamic paramters of
passively controlled high power rockets for ﬂight simulaton
Simon Box, Christopher M. Bishop, Hugh Hunt
February, 2009
Abstract
High power rockets are essentially large unguided model rockets that can ﬂy to altitudes
as high as 13 km and recover to earth by parachute. A rocket ﬂight simulator can be used
to predict the ﬂight path of the rocket during the ascent. To do this the simulator requires
certain input parameters.
This paper summarizes some simple methods for estimating
these parameters from very basic information such as the geometry of the rocket and the
thrust curve. Methods for estimating the mass, centre of mass, moments of inertia, thrust
damping, centre of pressure, drag force and normal force are given in this paper. The
methodology described in this paper has been used in conjunction with a rocket ﬂight
simulator to predict the ﬂight path of a high power rocket. Some results are given in the
summary of the paper.
1
Introduction
Rocket ﬂight simulators require certain input parameters that describe the properties of the
rocket for the simulator.
These include dynamic parameters such as the thrust, mass and
moments of inertia of the rocket and also aerodynamic parameters such as the coeﬃcients of
the aerodynamic forces and the location of the centre of pressure.
The parameters can be obtained in a number of diﬀerent ways, for instance in the case
of the aerodynamic parameters these could be obtained through wind tunnel experiments on
the rocket or on a scale model. Alternatively they can be found by using computational ﬂuid
dynamics to numerically integrate the viscous and pressure forces over the surface of the rocket.
While experimental and computational methods can provide accurate estimates of the pa-
rameters it is also useful to be able to estimate the parameters using simple equations derived
from theoretical relationships using some simplifying assumptions. This approach provides a
quick method for estimating parameters in applications where the most accurate estimates are
not required.
This document collates and summarizes relevant equations for estimating the dynamic and
aerodynamic input parameters from rocketry and engineering literature. In some cases equa-
tions are semi-empirical, that is they use relationships that have been ﬁtted to data from
experiments using rockets of a standard shape. In general, these equations are only applicable
1
to rockets with a conventional shape. That is an axisymmetric rocket with a single cylindrical
body, a conical, parabolic or ogive shaped nose cone and ﬁn sets consisting of three or four
trapezoidal ﬁns. Changes is body diameter via conical transitions are allowed.
There are also a number of simplifying assumptions that are used in the estimation of
the parameters and in the rocket simulators that use these parameters.
These include the
assumption that the rocket is an axisymmetric rigid body and that the angle of attack during
th