PLC SCADA
for Beginners
MAKER
INNOVATIONS
SERIES
Understanding and Implementing 
Industrial Automation Systems
 —
Ashraf Said AlMadhoun
Maker Innovations Series
Jump start your path to discovery with the Apress Maker Innovations 
series! From the basics of electricity and components through to the most 
advanced options in robotics and Machine Learning, you’ll forge a path to 
building ingenious hardware and controlling it with cutting-edge software. 
All while gaining new skills and experience with common toolsets you can 
take to new projects or even into a whole new career.
The Apress Maker Innovations series offers projects-based learning, 
while keeping theory and best processes front and center. So you get 
hands-on experience while also learning the terms of the trade and how 
entrepreneurs, inventors, and engineers think through creating and 
executing hardware projects. You can learn to design circuits, program AI, 
create IoT systems for your home or even city, and so much more!
Whether you’re a beginning hobbyist or a seasoned entrepreneur 
working out of your basement or garage, you’ll scale up your skillset to 
become a hardware design and engineering pro. And often using low-cost  
and open-source software such as the Raspberry Pi, Arduino, PIC 
microcontroller, and Robot Operating System (ROS). Programmers and 
software engineers have great opportunities to learn, too, as many projects 
and control environments are based in popular languages and operating 
systems, such as Python and Linux.
If you want to build a robot, set up a smart home, tackle assembling a 
weather-ready meteorology system, or create a brand-new circuit using 
breadboards and circuit design software, this series has all that and more! 
Written by creative and seasoned Makers, every book in the series tackles 
both tested and leading-edge approaches and technologies for bringing 
your visions and projects to life.
More information about this series at https://link.springer.com/
bookseries/17311.
