September - November 2025 
French  Accent 
The Magazine of Learn French at Home 
The Unique Interactive e-magazine for French Learners since 2006 
 
Become ﬂuent in French  
from the comfort of your home  
or oﬃce with our friendly  
online French tutors 
Learn to speak French ﬂuently with an online French tutor on Zoom or MicrosoŌ Teams. Our French tutors 
will create personalized lessons that will maximize your learning experience. They are all French naƟves and 
they are ﬂuent in English. We understand how challenging it can be to learn another language. That’s why 
we make learning French at home fun and easy. Meet our French Teachers.  
    Learn French at Home, the ﬁrst French language school ever on a communicaƟon plaƞorm: Skype, and 
now Zoom and MicrosoŌ Teams, has been created more than 20 years ago, in 2004. Since then, more than 
3,000 students, from 6 to more than 90 years old and from every conƟnent, have trusted our French learn-
ing courses. They all say that they have experiencing real and saƟsfying results while having a great Ɵme 
with our friendly teachers. You will see on the website a selecƟon of their very enthusiasƟc and warm re-
views. Have fun browsing with us on the web, and don't hesitate to write to us for any quesƟon! 
Céline, Vincent and the whole team of Learn French at Home 
www.learnfrenchathome.com 
What Make Us Diﬀerent? 
 
● One-on-One Learning 
● NaƟve French Teachers 
● Get More EducaƟon (personalized homework as-
signments, discussion Forum...) 
● Proven Learning Methods (our school was the ﬁrst 
to give French lessons on Skype, and then on Zoom, 
and the rate of saƟsfacƟon is very high) 
● We Publish Our Own Learning Tools (magazines 
and e-books with audio guides) 
● Same Day Student Support 
Le français interacƟf 
Les connecteurs du quoƟdien :  du coup, par contre, bref... 
Page  5 
Exercices 
Page  8 
Le Coin des branchés : De la tête aux pieds 
Page  9 
Dictées 
Page  9 
Jeux :  
- Trouvez la bonne réponse !
Page 10 
- Synonymes et antonymes, en contexte
Page 11 
- Mots croisés
Page 12 
Robert Doisneau, le peintre humaniste, très célèbre 
    et pourtant méconnu 
Page 15 
Une manière de regarder les autres 
Page 15 
Le photographe du monde ouvrier  
 
Page 17 
Les photos d'enfants, toujours les plus touchantes 
Page 18 
Les amoureux 
Page 19 
Portraits de célébrités et de mode – et la couleur 
Page 20 
 MenƟssa, une chanteuse promise à un bel avenir :  
 Et Bam 
Page 22 
La peƟte histoire :  La robe rose 
Page 25 
Un extrait liƩéraire : Une vie de photographe, par Robert Doisneau 
Page 26 
Le poème : L'espoir 
Page 28 
SoluƟons des exercices 
Pages 27 et 29 
 Sommaire 
À la librairie 
Découvrir la France 
Sur la scène française 
Issue Number 111 
Page 3 
French Accent, September - November 2025 
