8001 English Spelling Exercises to Help you Overcome Common Errors in Written English Communication and Succeed Professionally Janette RobinsonIntroduction The first impression one makes is always crucial. Whether it's a prospective employer, or a new personal connection, making a good initial impression is key to a good long term relationship. In an increasingly virtual word, the first impression you make on someone is usually through the medium of the written word. Whether it's a job application or a dating app, text is the first level. Therefore, it is very important that your spelling skills are as strong as possible. Strong spelling skills can lead to better grades on tests and examinations, to a better professional future, and to a more kind assessment of your overall desirability. This book will strengthen your English spelling skills. It contains a very large number of puzzles, in each if which you are given a series of words, and asked to find the word which is wrongly spelled (and to correct its spelling). This is a good format for many reasons: chief among which is the fact that, in addition to being exposed to a word which is commonly misspelled, you will also encounter a large number of difficult words which are correctly and accurately spelled, in each puzzle. This will help you update both correct and incorrect spellings in your mental database, and will exponentially multiply the speed of your orthography improvement. Go ahead, get ready to make a great first impression!Table of Contents Introduction Puzzle Set 1 Answers: Puzzle Set 1 Puzzle Set 2 Answers: Puzzle Set 2 Puzzle Set 3 Answers: Puzzle Set 3 Puzzle Set 4 Answers: Puzzle Set 4 Puzzle Set 5 Answers: Puzzle Set 5 Puzzle Set 6 Answers: Puzzle Set 6 Puzzle Set 7 Answers: Puzzle Set 7 Puzzle Set 8 Answers: Puzzle Set 8 Puzzle Set 9 Answers: Puzzle Set 9Puzzle Set 1 In each of the word sets below, your task is to find the word whose spelling is incorrect, and to correct that spelling. About 70% of the questions are simple, but some are definitely a real challenge! Answers can be found in the next chapter. All the best! 1. One of these six words is wrongly spelled. Which one? For bonus points, can you also correct the spelling of that word? -- A. salient B. nascent C. transient D. seperate E. obdurate F. puerile ---- 2. One of these six words is wrongly spelled. Which one? For bonus points, can you also correct the spelling of that word? -- A. vicarious B. apparrent C. surreptitious D. perspicacity E. cursory F. variegated ---- 3. One of these six words is wrongly spelled. Which one? For bonus points, can you also correct the spelling of that word? -- A. ineffable B. questionnair C. turpitude D. torpid E. vicarious F. arrogate ---- 4. One of these six words is wrongly spelled. Which one? For bonus points, can you also correct the spelling of that word? -- A. legerdemain B. sacrosanct C. portent D. alacrity E. dither F. reccommend ---- 5. One of these six words is wrongly spell