A Job to Love Alongside a satisfying relationship, a career we love is one of the foremost requirements for a fulfilled life. Unfortunately, it is devilishly hard to understand oneself well enough to know quite where one’s energies should be directed. It is to help us out of some of these impasses that we wrote A Job to Love , a guide to how we can better understand ourselves and locate a job that is right for us. With compassion and a deeply practical spirit, the book guides us to discover our true talents and to make sense of our confused desires and aspirations before it is too late.Contents 1 Introduction i. How we came to desire a job we could love ii. How alone we are on our search 2 Obstacles to Having Goals i. The ‘vocation myth’ ii. The vagueness of our minds 3 The Pleasure Points of Work i. Identifying what you love ii. The anti-fixation move iii. The output/input confusion iv. What is a job like? 4 Obstacles and Inhibitions i. Family work templates ii. Fixing parents iii. The dangers of success iv. Confidence and inner voices v. The ‘perfectionism trap’ vi. The duty trap vii. The impostor syndrome viii. The job investment trap ix. If it were a good idea, I wouldn’t be the one to have it x. Evolution not revolution xi. The energising force of death 5 Consolations i. Happiness and expectations ii. Self-compassion iii. Why no single job can ever be enough iv. Falling in love again v. Good enough work1 Introduction i. How we came to desire a job we could love One of the most extraordinary and yet quietly routine features of our age is the assumption that we should be able to find work that we not only tolerate, or endure for the money, but profoundly appreciate, for its high degree of purpose, camaraderie and creativity. We see nothing strange in the remarkable notion that we should try to find a job we love. It is possible to be highly sympathetic to this wish and yet refuse to see it as either normal or easy to fulfil and to insist that, in order to stand any chance of honouring it, we need to lavish concentrated brain power, time and imagination on its underlying complexities. For most of history, the question of whether we might love our work would have seemed laughable or peculiar. We tilled the soil and herded animals, worked down mines and emptied chamber pots. And we suffered. The serf or smallholder could look forward to only a very few moments of satisfaction, and these would lie firmly outside the hours of employment: the harvest moon festival next year or the wedding day of their eldest child, currently six years old. The corresponding assumption was that if one had sufficient money, one would simply stop working. The educated classes among the ancient Romans (whose attitudes dominated Europe for centuries) considered all paid work to be inherently humiliating. Tellingly, their word for business was negotium: literally, ‘not-enjoyable activity’. Leisure, doing not very much, perhaps hunting or giving dinner parties, was felt to