AFFAIRSAFFAIRSPublished in 2019 by The School of Life 70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB Copyright © The School of Life 2019 Printed in Belgium by Graphius All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated without express prior consent of the publisher. A proportion of this book has appeared online at www.theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife/ Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity. The School of Life is a resource for helping us understand ourselves, for improving our relationships, our careers and our social lives – as well as for helping us find calm and get more out of our leisure hours. We do this through creating films, workshops, books and gifts. www.theschooloflife.com ISBN 978-1-912891-34-4CONTENTS A Brief History of Affairs When Does an Affair Begin? How to Spot a Couple That Might Be Headed for an Affair The Role of Sex in Affairs The Essence of What We Feel Upset About The Pleasures of Affairs The Pains of Affairs How to Reduce the Risk of Affairs How Can an Affair Help a Marriage? What Ideally Happens When an Affair Is Discovered? How to Handle the Desire for Affairs? What Does It Take to Be Good at Affairs? Affairs and High HorsesA BRIEF HISTORY OF AFFAIRS A n affair is a romantic or sexual story between two people, one of whom (at least) is ostensibly committed to someone else. Most importantly, in our times, an affair is a catastrophe, pretty much the greatest betrayal that can befall us, a harbinger of untrammelled suffering, frequently the end of the marriage it has violated and almost always an occasion for fierce moralising and the division of participants into ‘goodies’ (those who have been betrayed) and ‘monsters’ (those who have betrayed). However, in trying to understand affairs and make sense of their pains, as well as their less frequently confessed attractions, we should grasp that the way in which we interpret affairs today is very particular to our own times; we are remarkably contorted about the whole business, as judged against the long span of human experience. People have always had affairs, but what an affair means has been subject to huge changes across societies and eras. In order to gain a deeper picture of what we are doing when we look beyond our primary relationships, we need to glance backwards into the history – as well as briefly forwards into the future – of affairs: Quito, modern-day Ecuador, 1532 The Inca sun-king Atahualpa owns private harems scattered across his empire; he is said to have had affairs with 3,000 women. Few subjects appear to think any less of him for this. All nobles have hundreds of concubines. There are official regulations concerning the number of mistresses that anyone in government is allowed: a provincial governor can 