 
 
Published in 2018 by The School of Life
70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB
Copyright © The School of Life 2019
Designed and typeset by Marcia Mihotich
Printed in China by Union
All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out
or otherwise circulated without express prior consent of the publisher.
A proportion of this book has appeared online at theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife
Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book.
If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the
earliest opportunity.
The School of Life is a resource for helping us understand ourselves, for improving our relationships,
our careers and our social lives – as well as for helping us find calm and get more out of our leisure
hours. We do this through creating films, workshops, books and gifts.
www.theschooloflife.com
ISBN 978-1-912891-77-1
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Introduction
The history of every life is made up both of the life we lead, and the richer,
more ambitious one we dream of leading, but never quite do... because we
are stretched out in the bath or on the sofa, too tired or worried, too
distracted or despairing.
This alternative life could be ours if only we were able to get to our desks
on time, rise early enough, ask people for what we need, remember how
finite existence is – or if we went to see a psychotherapist. We squander
some of our best possibilities to the quiet, unheralded tragedy of
procrastination.
Our shame at the scale of our procrastination is part of the problem. We’re
already so guilty about what we’re not doing that the very thought of
examining our errors and taking action feels unbearable. It seems as if we
have procrastinated far too much to deserve a new start.
We should be less hard on ourselves – and in the process, less fatalistic
about the chances of change. Procrastination is a design flaw of the human
animal, not an appalling and unique personal failing. We need to consider
the problem rationally, talk about it openly and learn to take small,
manageable steps to attenuate its worst ills.
The goal is not to remove procrastination altogether, but to understand its
roots, appreciate when it may strike and work out its hold on us, so that we
can plot a nimble path around it. Having learnt the art of managing our
procrastination, we’ll still sometimes spend slightly too long on the sofa,
but we will have opened up a major new possibility: that of eventually
dying with fewer regrets.
