Praise for Before We Say Goodbye “Endearing.” — New York Times Book Review “Fans of Matt Haig’s The Midnight Library will enjoy this quick read... Kawaguchi has found a unique way to manipulate such a commonly used trope as time travel and has captured the power of joy as a legacy.” — Library Journal “The narrative is deeply moving.” — Chicago Review of Books “Heartwarming, quirky, and wistful.” — HuffPost “Interwoven into what initially feels like a whimsical escape are existential conundrums of love and loss, family and freedom, life and death.” — Christian Science Monitor “This charmingly magical novel is about discovering happiness despite the pasts that we desperately want to revisit.” — Harvard Crimson “The book’s resonating charm provides lasting emotional balm.” — BooklistBEFORE WE SAY GOODBYE A Novel Toshikazu Kawaguchi Translated from the Japanese by Geoffrey TrousselotToshikazu Kawaguchi was born in Osaka, Japan, in 1971. He has produced, directed and written for the theatrical 
				group Sonic Snail. His works as a playwright include COUPLE , Sunset Song and family time . His play Before the Coffee Gets Cold won the grand prize at the Suginami Drama Festival. Before the Coffee Gets Cold has become  an international bestseller and has been adapted for the screen in Japan.Contents i  The Husband ii  The Farewell iii  The Proposal iv  The Daughter Author’s Notei The Husband “So, there’s nothing one could do to change the present?” Monji Kadokura inquisitively tilted his head of gray-speckled hair, dislodging a cherry-blossom petal that fluttered to the ground. Under the dim sepia light of the shaded lamps—the café’s only illumination—he was squinting so closely at the jottings in his notebook that his face was almost pressed against the page. “What does that mean, specifically?” “Well, maybe I could explain it like this...” Replying to Kadokura’s question, with long narrow eyes, was Nagare Tokita, a huge man more than six and a half feet tall. He was the owner of the café and always wore a white cook’s uniform. “Take this cash register, for example. You’d be hard-pressed to find one in Japan that is older. I’ve been told it’s very rare. By the way, even empty, it weighs about ninety pounds to stop people stealing it. Anyway, let’s say that one day, this cash register was stolen.” Nagare slapped his hand on the cash register on the counter. “If that happened, then naturally you would want to return to the past and hide it away somewhere or get someone to stand guard to stop anyone from entering the café to steal it, right?” “Sure, that makes sense.” Kadokura nodded in agreement. “But you see, that can’t happen. No matter how hard you tried to prevent the cash register from getting stolen, the thief would still make their way into the café and steal the cash register, even if it was well hidden.” “Gosh, that is so fascinating. What could be the science behind that? I would be interested to know the causal relationship—if you know what I m