Table of contents About the Author Acknowledgments Contents Preface Book Structure and Formatting Chapter 4 Introduction Code Exploring Software Design Principles Minimalist and composable The DRY principle vs. the KISS principle Aspects to consider when applying the DRY principle Delegation Favor composition over inheritance Accept interfaces and return structs Accepting interfaces Returning structs The singles principle A single purpose A single responsibility A single level of abstraction The interface segregation principle Roles versus responsibilities The dependency inversion principle Object-Oriented Design Patterns The singleton pattern Usage Implementation What is different in Go? The factory method pattern Usage Implementation What is different in Go? The observer pattern Usage Implementation What is different in Go? The adapter pattern Usage Implementation What is different in Go? Final thoughts on patterns Summary Questions Chapter 5 Introduction Code What is Code UX? Achieving Clarity Why idiomatic code? Formatting Whitespace What’s in a name? Names should be meaningful Names should be concise Names should be consistent Names should be context-aware Names don’t need to be original Adopting early return Switching to extended switch Avoiding shadowing Better struct initialization Avoiding foreign idioms Writing useful documentation Errors are not exceptional Named errors Wrapped errors The use of globals and init() Enums Don’t panic()! Striving for Consistency Achieving a consistent style Building consistent packages The size and scope of packages Packages should be self-contained It’s all in the package name File organization How many files should be in a package? Do I need a function or a method? How long should our functions and methods be? Consider parameters and return values The number of arguments The scope of the arguments The grouping of the arguments The ordering of the arguments Boolean arguments are evil Reducing constructor arguments Employing private constructors Adopting config injection Becoming Predictable APIs: export only what you must APIs: good fences make good neighbors Predictability with encapsulation Constructors A little copying vs. a little dependency Dealing with Conflicting Goals Tradeoffs between code UX and performance Tradeoffs between code UX and code UX Summary Questions Chapter 6 Introduction Code The What, When, Why, and How of Testing Why do we test? When do we test? How much should we test? Unit tests User acceptance tests End-to-end tests The test pyramid What should we be testing? What should we not be testing? Table-Driven Tests Test Scenario Construction What are the intended features and behaviors? What's the impact of different input types? How could things go wrong? Mocks, Stubs, and Test Recorders Mocks and the Mockery tool Stubs Quick mocks and stubs Test recorders Test UX and Quality The predictability of a pattern Improving test readability Using assertion libraries Avoiding the ambiguity