Communication Skills Training How to Talk to Anyone, Connect Effortlessly, Develop Charisma, and Become a People PersonPUBLISHED BY: James W. Williams © Copyright 2019 - All rights reserved. The content contained within this book may not be reproduced, duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from the author or the publisher. Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages, reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained within this book. Either directly or indirectly. Legal Notice: This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the author or publisher. Disclaimer Notice: Please note the information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has been executed to present accurate, up to date, and reliable, complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice. The content within this book has been derived from various sources. Please consult a licensed professional before attempting any techniques outlined in this book. By reading this document, the reader agrees that under no circumstances is the author responsible for any losses, direct or indirect, which are incurred as a result of the use of information contained within this document, including, but not limited to, — errors, omissions, or inaccuraciesTable of Contents Your Free Gift Introduction Chapter 1: Some Basic Considerations Chapter 2: Why We Don’t Communicate Right Chapter 3: The Art of Active Listening Chapter 4: The Basics of Interpersonal Communication Chapter 5: Dealing with “Noise” Part I: Communicating When Angry Chapter 6: Dealing with “Noise” Part 2: In Case of Miscommunication Chapter 7: Dealing with “Noise” Part 3: Interactions in the Toxic Realm Chapter 8: Having a Great Public Presentation Chapter 9: Feedback: How to Give and Respond to It Chapter 10: Conclusion Thank youYour Free Gift As a way of saying thanks for your purchase, I wanted to offer you a free bonus E-book called Bulletproof Confidence, exclusive to the readers of this book. To get instant access, just tap here or go to: https://theartofmastery.com/confidence/ Inside the book, you will discover: What are shyness & social anxiety, and the psychology behind them Simple yet powerful strategies for overcoming social anxiety Breakdown of the traits of what makes a confident person Traits you must DESTROY if you want to become confident Easy techniques you can implement TODAY to keep the conversation flowing Confidence checklist to ensure you’re on the right path of self-developmentIntroduction Thank you for purchasing this book, Communication Skills Training: How to Talk to An