Conceptual Programming with Python Introduction Why Python? How to use Python? Where to find more information? Overview over the book About the authors Acknowledgments Python from the top-level Basic types and operations Data structures Mysteries of Python Summary Solution to top-level challenge Quizzes Exercises Imperative Programming Blocks of Code Inputs/Outputs Error handling Loops The Halting problem Iterating through data structures The guessing game Summary Solution to Challenges Quizzes Exercises Recursion and backtracking Prelude: functions calling functions The Tower of Hanoi How is recursion executed? Some combinatorics Solving sudoku: Using backtracking Summary Solution to recursion challenge Quizzes Exercises Object Oriented Programming First example: a class for accounts Example: Implementing Expressions Example: Creating a Knowledge Base Summary Solution to oop challenge Quizzes Exercises Functional Programming Higher order functions and comprehension Laziness The sieve of Erathostenes Python in Python Challenge: if-then-else Summary Solution to the if-then-else challenge Quizzes Exercises Implementing games with pygame What is Pygame? The Pong Game Project Getting started with Data Science Data analysis with the Pandas library Visualising your data Mining the data Summary Solutions to Challenges ExercisesConceptual Programming with Python Thorsten Altenkirch and Isaac Triguero Lulu.com © 2020 Thorsten & Isaac (Standard Copyright Licence)Introduction This book is based on a course for Master’s Students at the School of Computer Science of the University of Nottingham. The course and the book are intended for students with little or no background in programming coming from different backgrounds educationally as well as culturally. It is not mainly a Python course, but we use Python as a vehicle to teach basic programming concepts. Hence, the words conceptual programming in the title. The concepts covered are: data structures and a visual understanding of their representation on a computer, control structures in imperative programming, the Halting problem showing the limits of computability, the use of recursion to design algorithms, backtracking to solve hard problems, the basics of object oriented programming, the use of trees to represent structured data, concepts of functional programming, how to write an interpreter, basic software engineering via a game development project, the basics of data science. This includes some material which we do not cover in our lectures due to lack of time. Why Python? Python is a modern language which is named after Monty Python the British comedians, not the snake. We are using Python for the course and this book for the following reasons: Python has a very simple syntax with very little overhead. It uses layout to represent structure which is very natural and easy to read. Python uses dynamic typing, this makes it easy to learn because you don’t have to get your head around a static type system,