ENGLISH McCa VOCABULARY rthy IN USE and O’D K The words you need to communicate with confidence. e Advanced ll Y Vocabulary explanations and practice for advanced level (C1-C2) learners E M of English. Perfect for both self-study and classroom activities. NG C L •  Expand your vocabulary with easy to understand explanations and I ENGLISH S practice exercises. H V •  Learn words in context, with 101 different topics, including ‘Applying O for a job’, ‘Illness’ and ‘Easily confused words’. CA •  Be confident about what you are learning, thanks to Cambridge BU research into how English is really spoken and written. L VOCABULARY A •  Remember words more effectively with lots of opportunities for RY Vocabulary personalised practice. IN reference and Also inside is a code for an ebook*. With the ebook you can: US practice •  listen to new words as well as reading them E •  bookmark pages, highlight text and add notes to help you remember IN USE words. with e *The ebook has the same content as the printed book and works on Macs, PCs and Third Edition b nglish Vocabulary in Use Advanced  Cover o tablets. Online version for Windows and Mac (requires Chrome browser). Downloadable ok version for iOS and Android tablets (requires free Cambridge Bookshelf app). Instructions and access code inside. Advanced He The O’D wings ENGLISH Ma w r o t r ENGLISH e g l i l PRONUNCIATION d n H ra ’s l a Advanced Grammar in Use m b m e IDIOMS nd K s a t r - s s e Mc With answers and eBook • Third Edition Adv IN USE ew e l i r l i i n Y e n IN USE C s g g s a A self-study reference and practice book for advanced learners of English rt Advanced Understand and be understood in English. M English Idioms in Use Advanced is a vocabulary book for advanced-level learners. hy Advanced Grammar in Use Third Edition meets the advanced-level learner’s needs anced Gr Advanced It is primarily designed as a self-study reference and practice book but it can also be used for classroom work. E • 60 easy-to-use two-page units. Idioms are presented and explained on left-NG hand pages with a range of practice exercises on right-hand pages. LI ENGLISH Pronunciation explanations, audio and practice for advanced C with comprehensive grammar coverage and a user-friendly layout. This edition: level (C1-C2) learners of English. Perfect for both self-study and •  contains 100 units of grammar reference and practice materials classroom activities. Cover •  facilitates self-study by featuring a Study planner to help learners identify K •  Learn to speak clearly with 60 units of explanations, examples and E ENGLISH S which grammar to focus on • Presents and explains idioms in typical contexts using short texts and clear Y N exercises. H example sentences. •  has a comprehensive Grammar reminder section to allow learners to M G C L I •  Listen to a variety of English accents, to hear the similarities and Edition D double-check language areas they have already studied I ammar in Use S • Based on a corpus o