Praise for Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance “Profoundly important. For eons, we’ve been trapped inside the myth of innate talent. Angela Duckworth shines a bright light into a truer understanding of how we achieve. We owe her a great debt.” —David Shenk, author of The Genius in All of Us: New Insights into Genetics, Talent, and IQ “Enlightening . . . Grit teaches that life’s high peaks aren’t necessarily conquered by the naturally nimble but, rather, by those willing to endure, wait out the storm, and try again.” —Ed Viesturs, seven-time climber of Mount Everest and author of No Shortcuts to the Top “Masterful . . . Grit offers a truly sane perspective: that true success comes when we devote ourselves to endeavors that give us joy and purpose.” —Arianna Huffington, author of Thrive “Readable, compelling, and totally persuasive. The ideas in this book have the potential to transform education, management, and the way its readers live. Angela Duckworth’s Grit is a national treasure.” —Lawrence H. Summers, former secretary of the treasury and President Emeritus at Harvard University “Fascinating. Angela Duckworth pulls together decades of psychological research, inspiring success stories from business and sports, and her own unique personal experience and distills it all into a set of practical strategies to make yourself and your children more motivated, more passionate, and more persistent at work and at school.” —Paul Tough, author of How Children Succeed “A thoughtful and engaging exploration of what predicts success. Grit takes on widespread misconceptions and predictors of what makes us strive harder and push further . . . Duckworth’s own story, wound throughout her research, ends up demonstrating her theory best: passion and perseverance make up grit.” —Tory Burch, chairman, CEO and designer of Tory Burch “An important book . . . In these pages, the leading scholarly expert on the power of grit (what my mom called ‘stick-to-it-iveness’) carries her message to a wider audience, using apt anecdotes and aphorisms to illustrate how we can usefully apply her insights to our own lives and those of our kids.” —Robert D. Putnam, professor of public policy at Harvard University and author of Bowling Alone and Our Kids “Empowering . . . Angela Duckworth compels attention with her idea that regular individuals who exercise self-control and perseverance can reach as high as those who are naturally talented—that your mindset is as important as your mind.” —Soledad O’Brien, chairman of Starfish Media Group and former coanchor of CNN’s American Morning “Invaluable . . . In a world where access to knowledge is unprecedented, this book describes the key trait of those who will optimally take advantage of it. Grit will inspire everyone who reads it to stick to something hard that they have a passion for.” —Sal Khan, founder of Khan Academy “I love an idea that challenges our conventional wisdom and Grit does just that! Put aside what you think you k