HBR Guide to Better Business WritingHarvard Business Review Guides Arm yourself with the advice you need to succeed on the job, from the most trusted brand in business. Packed with how-to essentials from leading experts, the HBR Guides provide smart answers to your most pressing work challenges. The titles include: HBR Guide to Better Business Writing HBR Guide to Finance Basics for Managers HBR Guide to Getting the Mentoring You Need HBR Guide to Getting the Right Job HBR Guide to Getting the Right Work Done HBR Guide to Giving Effective Feedback HBR Guide to Making Every Meeting Matter HBR Guide to Managing Stress HBR Guide to Managing Up and Across HBR Guide to Persuasive Presentations HBR Guide to Project ManagementOther Books Written or Edited by Bryan A. Garner Garner’s Modern American Usage Garner’s Dictionary of Legal Usage Black’s Law Dictionary (all editions since 1996) Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts, with Justice Antonin Scalia Making Your Case: The Art of Persuading Judges, with Justice Antonin Scalia Garner on Language and Writing The Redbook: A Manual on Legal Style The Elements of Legal Style The Chicago Manual of Style, Ch. 5, “Grammar and Usage” (15th & 16th eds.) The Winning Brief Legal Writing in Plain English Ethical Communications for Lawyers Securities Disclosure in Plain English Guidelines for Drafting and Editing Court Rules The Oxford Dictionary of American Usage and Style A Handbook of Basic Legal Terms A Handbook of Business Law Terms A Handbook of Criminal Law Terms A Handbook of Family Law TermsHBR Guide to Better Business Writing Bryan A. Garner HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW PRESS Boston, MassachusettsCopyright 2012 Bryan A. Garner All rights reserved Printed in the United States of America 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in, or introduced into a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), without the prior permission of the publisher. Requests for permission should be directed to permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or mailed to Permissions, Harvard Business School Publishing, 60 Harvard Way, Boston, Massachusetts 02163. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Garner, Bryan A. HBR guide to better business writing / Bryan A. Garner. p. cm. — (Harvard business review guides) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 978-1-4221-8403-5 (alk. paper) 1. Commercial correspondence. 2. Business writing. I. Harvard business review. II. Title. III. Title: Guide to better business writing. HF5718.3.G37 2013 808.06'665—dc23 2012032809 eBook development by eBook ArchitectsTo J.P. Allen, my lifelong friendWhat You’ll Learn Do you freeze up when writing memos to senior executives? Do your reports meander and raise more questions than they answer for key stakeholders? Do your e-mails to colleagues disappear into a void, never to be answered or acted on? Do your proposals fail to win clie