Copyright Copyright © 2018 by Jimmy O. Yang Photos courtesy of the author. Page 206 photo courtesy of Jason Fredrickson. Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture. The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights. Da Capo Press Hachette Book Group 1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104 www.dacapopress.com @DaCapoPress First Edition: April 2018 Published by Da Capo Press, an imprint of Perseus Books, LLC, a subsidiary of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The Hachette Speakers Bureau provides a wide range of authors for speaking events. To find out more, go to www.hachettespeakersbureau.com or call (866) 376-6591. The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher. Editorial production by Christine Marra, Marra thon Production Services. www.marrathoneditorial.org Set in 12.5-point Dante MT Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available from the Library of Congress ISBN 978-0-306-90349-6 (hardcover) ISBN 978-0-306-90350-2 (e-book) E3-20180202-JV-PCCONTENTS Cover Title Page Copyright Foreword by Mike Judge Prologue 1. How to Asian 2. How to Immigrant 3. How to Thuglife 4. How to Get High 5. How to Stand Up 6. How to Strip Club DJ 7. How to Make It 8. How to Silicon Valley 9. How to Hollywood 10. How to American Epilogue Navigation Begin Reading Table of ContentsFOREWORD When we first cast Jimmy O. Yang in Silicon Valley , I didn’t know anything about him. I just had a good feeling about him based on his audition. I had no idea that the accent he was doing was not the way he normally spoke and that his persona was very different from that of the character he was playing in our show, Jian Yang. I also didn’t know that he had graduated with a degree in economics from UCSD, the same school I graduated from many years earlier, or that he graduated in 2009, the year that I gave the commencement speech, and that he had attended it and apparently had been somewhat inspired to go into comedy by what I said. I found all this out after we had been working on set for a couple days. Jimmy and I hit it off right away and became fast friends. As you’ll notice when you read this book, he’s a funny guy with an interesting and unique perspective on things in this country. You don’t often hear the stories about Chinese immigrants. At least it seems that way to me. I think maybe it’s because we Americans just don’t ask. Jimmy and I hung out quite a bit and I became interested in his story. It’s an interesting one. He’s had quite a journey. From being a child Ping-Pong star in Hong Kong, to coming to America and bec