A DVANCE P RAISE FOR How to Be Single and Happy “Jenny Taitz offers a skillful guide to uncovering your strength and contentment as an individual, allowing you to live more fully. Using engaging case studies and solid research, How to Be Single and Happy invites new insights into the stories we tell ourselves about relationships. This book is a gift for anyone who longs for real happiness.” —S HARON S ALZBERG, bestselling author of Lovingkindness and Real Love “You don’t need to wait to find your partner to find happiness. Drawing on a wealth of evidence and experience as a therapist, Jenny Taitz has written a book that’s as uplifting as it is practical.” —A DAM G RANT, New York Times bestselling author of Give and Take , Originals , and Option B (with Sheryl Sandberg) “What if, instead of treating the unprecedented rise of single people as a crisis, we all searched for ways to make going solo easier, more social, even happy? In her clinical work, and now, in this excellent book, Jenny Taitz has done pioneering work to help people achieve more fulfilling relationships regardless of their marital status. I recommend strongly.” —E RIC K LINENBERG, professor of sociology, New York University; New York Times bestselling author of Going Solo and Modern Romance (with Aziz Ansari) “At the heart of this honest and engaging book is a key insight—namely that our emotions are sometimes but not always helpful. And when emotions are not helpful—such as when we’re in the grip of anxiety about being alone forever—Dr. Taitz shows us how we can use scientifically documented methods for freeing ourselves from their painful grip. If you’re suffering in your quest for the Right One (or miserable from being with the Wrong One), this book is a must-read!” —J AMES G ROSS, P H. D ., professor of psychology, Stanford University “ How to Be Single and Happy is an excellent guide to living your life now rather than waiting for the perfect partner. Dr. Taitz has written a powerful and practical guide based on the best scientific research and self-help tools to free you from the myth that only married people can be happy. With a personal and engaging style, Dr. Taitz gives you the tools to living a full life as a single person. I will recommend this wonderful book to anyone who thinks that being single is something to escape from.” —R OBERT L . L EAHY , P H . D., author of The Jealousy Cure “We all yearn for connection and belonging, but our minds get in the way, pulling us into rumination, worry, judgment, and other soul killers. This wise and compassionate volume helps us reconnect with our values and bring them into our hearts and our relationships with others. This book is for you if you think it is time to set aside loneliness and ‘not good enough,’ and to let go of ‘what if . . .’ and ‘if only.’ This book is for you if you think it is time to live.” —S TEVEN C . H AYES, co-developer of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT); author of Get Out of Your Mind and Into You