HOW TO GET MARRIEDHOW TO GET MARRIED THE WEDDING CEREMONY; AND WHAT COMES BEFORE AND AFTER BY THE SCHOOL OF LIFEPublished in 2018 by The School of Life 70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB Copyright © The School of Life 2018 Designed and typeset by Marcia Mihotich Printed in Latvia by Livonia Print All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated without express prior consent of the publisher. Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity. The School of Life offers programmes, publications and services to assist modern individuals in their quest to live more engaged and meaningful lives. We’ve also developed a collection of content-rich, design-led retail products to promote useful insights and ideas from culture. www.theschooloflife.com ISBN 978-1-9999179-5-1 Around the world, different countries have different requirements about what should be said in a legally-accepted marriage service. Some countries prescribe a certain set of words, others leave it to the couple but then require a legal procedure in a government office. Do be sure to check the principles at work in your particular jurisdiction.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION BEFORE THE MARRIAGE SERVICE AFTER1. THE ENDURING POINT OF MARRIAGE Many of us find it ever harder to know what the point of marriage might be. The drawbacks are evident and well charted. Marriage is a state-sanctioned legal construct, fundamentally linked to matters of property, progeny and pension entitlements – a construct that aims to restrict and control how two people might feel towards one another over fifty or more years. It places a cold, unhelpful, expensive and emotionally alien frame around what will always be a private matter of the heart. We don’t need a marriage certificate to show affection and admiration. Indeed, forcing commitment only increases the danger of eventual inauthenticity and dishonesty. If love doesn’t work out, being married simply makes it much harder to disentangle two lives and prolongs the agony of a dysfunctional union. Love either works or it doesn’t; marriage doesn’t help matters one iota either way. It is completely reasonable to suppose that the mature, modern and logical move is to sidestep marriage entirely, along with the obvious nonsense of a wedding. It would be hopeless to try to defend marriage on the grounds of its convenience. It is clearly cumbersome, expensive, risky and, at junctures, wholly archaic. But that is the point. The whole rationale of marriage is to function as a prison that it is very hard and very embarrassing for two people to get out of. The essence of marriage is to tie our hands, to frustrate our wills, to put high and costly obstacles in the way of splitting up, and sometimes to force two unhappy people to s