Chapter 1
Tailoring the System Life Cycle
Thomas Kusel
Abstract
Every system is unique and requires a tailored life cycle to ensure that its develop-
ment can be managed efficiently. The process of tailoring the system life cycle is 
generally not well understood and is often poorly executed, which can result in inef-
ficiencies and elevated risks for the project. This chapter defines a tailoring methodol-
ogy that can assist Systems Engineers and Project Managers to better understand and 
apply the tailoring process. The tailoring methodology first considers the customiza-
tion of a life cycle for individual subsystems, followed by a harmonization through 
the system life cycle. The technological and organizational factors that impact on 
the customization are identified and their impact on the life cycle is described. The 
chapter also defines how the life cycle can be optimized. Throughout the chapter, 
examples are given to illustrate how the methodology can be applied to complex and 
multi-disciplinary systems.
Keywords: systems engineering, system life cycle management, system life cycle 
tailoring, systems engineering management, project management
1. Introduction
The perception of how much value Systems Engineering (SE) brings to a project
versus its cost and its effort varies widely amongst originations and industries [1]. 
There are many factors that shape these perceptions, some of which are purely 
subjective, while others highlight real problems with the application of the SE 
methodology.
The incorrect application of SE can incur a large amount of unnecessary effort on 
a project, slowing it down and making it heavy, costly and inefficient. On the other 
hand, a well-applied, minimum effort SE process that enhances the most important 
aspects of the project can be invigorating and add massive amounts of value. When 
starting a project, the question then becomes: “What is the ‘minimum effort’ that 
should be applied to this project and what are the ‘most important aspects’ that the SE 
process should be focused on?” This is a question about tailoring.
The nature of engineering projects varies widely across industries, organiza­
tions, technology domains and application domains. The method of effectively 
engineering these broad-ranging products varies to such a degree that, on the 
surface, their similarities are almost unrecognizable. For example, the engineer­
ing approach to develop consumer software on a mobile platform seems to be far 
removed from the engineering approach to building a large new bridge. Yet, these 
engineering processes all have similar underlying engineering principles and can 
2
Systems Engineering – Design, Analysis, Programming, and Maintenance of Complex Systems
2
all benefit from the SE approach, if applied appropriately. Thus, the SE process can 
look radically different between projects, depending on how it is tailored for the 
specific project.
A further complication for the application of the SE proc