




Contents

Cover
Front Matter
Part I. SE-Principles

1. Systems Thinking
2. Process Models: Systems Engineering and Others


Part II. The Problem-Solving Process

3. Systems Design
4. Project Management


Part III. Systems Design as Systems Architecting and Concept Development

5. Systems Architecting
6. Concept Development


Part IV. Case Studies

7. The Systems Engineering Basics in Our Systems Engineering Concept
8. Case Study 1: Private House Building: Additional Domicile
9. Case Study 2: Airport Planning
10. Case Study 3: Smart City and Science Tower, Graz


Part V. SE for Practice

11. Seven Basic Recommendations
12. Typical Weak Areas in Projects (Stumbling Blocks)
13. Activities Checklists
14. Characteristics of Successful Project Management


Part VI. Methods and Tools (M&T)

15. Survey of Methods and Tools
16. Encyclopedia/Glossary


Back Matter



Landmarks

Cover
Table of Contents
Body Matter





















Reinhard Haberfellner, 
Olivier de Weck, 
Ernst Fricke and 

Siegfried Vössner



Systems Engineering
Fundamentals and Applications













Reinhard Haberfellner

Institute of General Management and Organization, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Austria



Olivier de Weck

Engineering Systems Division, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA



Ernst Fricke

BMW AG, Munich, Germany



Siegfried Vössner

Engineering and Business Informatics, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Austria






				ISBN 978-3-030-13430-3
e-ISBN 978-3-030-13431-0


https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-13431-0

Library of Congress Control Number: 2019934964
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.
The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.
The publisher, the authors, and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, express or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

This book is published under the imprint Birkhäuser, www.birkhauser-science.com by the registered company Springer Nature Switzerland AG
The registered compan