PRAISE FOR KILLED BY A TRAFFIC ENGINEER “A blistering critique of the disconnect between what transportation engineers do and what the research tells us about traffic safety. This eminently readable book is a wake-up call for all of us.” —Susan Handy, Professor, University of California, Davis; author of Shifting Gears: Toward a New Way of Thinking about Transportation “In Killed by a Traffic Engineer , Wes Marshall lays bare the dogmas that give traffic engineering an appearance of objective scientific authority. A century of lavish investment in the most costly and extensive road network in the world has given Americans the worst traffic safety record among high-income countries. As a trained and experienced expert, Wes is an insider who proves his loyalty to the profession by exposing its departure from its own avowed purposes. He reveals how engineering standards that are supposed to make streets safer or more efficient actually do neither. They invite speeding, make walking more dangerous, and often don’t even save drivers' time. Wes is a constructive critic who offers remedies for the afflictions he diagnoses. Killed by a Traffic Engineer is serious but readable, disturbing but witty. Wes exposes the exclusive traffic engineering establishment to the people who actually need transportation, equipping us as citizens to demand the reforms we need. In writing it, he has done us all a uniquely valuable service.” —Peter Norton, Associate Professor of History, Department of Engineering and Society, University of Virginia; author of Fighting Traffic and AutonoramaAbout Island Press Since 1984, the nonprofit organization Island Press has been stimulating, shaping, and communicating ideas that are essential for solving environmental problems worldwide. With more than 1,000 titles in print and some 30 new releases each year, we are the nation’s leading publisher on environmental issues. We identify innovative thinkers and emerging trends in the environmental field. We work with world-renowned experts and authors to develop cross-disciplinary solutions to environmental challenges. Island Press designs and executes educational campaigns, in conjunction with our authors, to communicate their critical messages in print, in person, and online using the latest technologies, innovative programs, and the media. Our goal is to reach targeted audiences—scientists, policy makers, environmental advocates, urban planners, the media, and concerned citizens—with information that can be used to create the framework for long-term ecological health and human well-being. Island Press gratefully acknowledges major support from The Bobolink Foundation, Caldera Foundation, The Curtis and Edith Munson Foundation, The Forrest C. and Frances H. Lattner Foundation, The JPB Foundation, The Kresge Foundation, The Summit Charitable Foundation, Inc., and many other generous organizations and individuals. The opinions expressed in this book are those of the author(s) and do not ne