












 


 


The Art Of Thinking In Systems


 


 


Improve Your Logic, Think More Critically, And


Use Proven Systems To Solve Your Problems 


- Strategic Planning For Everyday Life


 


 


 


Steven Schuster


steveschusterbooks@gmail.com


 


 


 






Copyright © 2018 by Steven Schuster. All rights reserved.


 


No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without the prior written permission of the author.


 


Limit of Liability/ Disclaimer of Warranty: The author makes no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this work and specifically disclaims all warranties, including without limitation warranties of fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales or promotional materials. The advice and recipes contained herein may not be suitable for everyone. This work is sold with the understanding that the author is not engaged in rendering medical, legal or other professional advice or services. If professional assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought. The author shall not be liable for damages arising herefrom. The fact that an individual, organization of website is referred to in this work as a citation and/or potential source of further information does not mean that the author endorses the information the individual, organization to website may provide or recommendations they/it may make. Further, readers should be aware that Internet websites listed in this work might have changed or disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read.


 


For general information on the products and services or to obtain technical support, please contact the author.






Table Of Contents


 


 


 



Introduction




Chapter 1: What is Systems Thinking?




Chapter 2: The Elements of Systems Thinking




Chapter 3: Types of Thinking




Chapter 4: How to Shift from Linear Thinking Patterns to Systems Thinking




Chapter 5: Understanding System Behavior




Chapter 6: System Errors




Chapter 7: The Falling Systems




Chapter 8: Escalation




Chapter 9: Why Do the Rich Get Richer?




Chapter 10: Systems Thinking in Relationships




Chapter 11: Key Takeaways from Systems Thinking




Conclusion




Reference




Endnotes



 


 






Introduction


 


 


 


Would you like to think more complexly?  Understand why certain things happen to you sometimes seemingly by chance, sometime seemingly by law?  Or to become more productive finding shortcuts where no one else is looking?  What about improving your relationships understanding why certain arguments truly arise?  What would you think if I told you that you can achieve these things by working sm