















The Internet of Things



The MIT Press Essential Knowledge Series


Understanding Beliefs,

Nils J. Nilsson

Computing: A Concise History,

Paul Ceruzzi

The Conscious Mind,

Zoltan L. Torey

Crowdsourcing,

Daren C. Brabham

Free Will,

Mark Balaguer

Information and the Modern Corporation,

James Cortada

Intellectual Property Strategy,

John Palfrey

The Internet of Things,

Samuel Greengard

Memes in Digital Culture,

Limor Shifman

MOOCs,

Jonathan Haber

Open Access,

Peter Suber

Paradox,

Margaret Cuonzo

Waves,

Fred Raichlen


The Internet of Things






Samuel Greengard





The MIT Press

Cambridge, Massachusetts

London, England


© 2015 Massachusetts Institute of Technology


All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or mechanical means (including photocopying, recording, or information storage and retrieval) without permission in writing from the publisher.



Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data



Greengard, Samuel.


The internet of things / Samuel Greengard.


   p.  cm.—(MIT press essential knowledge series)


Includes bibliographical references and index.


ISBN 978-0-262-52773-6 (hardcover : alk. paper)


ISBN 978-0-262-32894-4 (retail e-book)


1. Embedded computer systems—Popular works. 2. Internet of things—Popular works. I. Title.


TK7895.E43G74 2015


384.3—dc23


2014042259





10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1


Contents


Series Foreword


Acknowledgments


Introduction


1    The Internet Changes Everything


2    Mobility, Clouds, and Digital Tools Usher in a Connected World


3    The Industrial Internet Emerges


4    Computer Devices Get Smart


5    Putting the Internet of Things to Work


6    The Reality and Repercussions of a Connected World


7    A Networked Future Emerges


Glossary


Notes


Further Readings


Index




Series Foreword

The MIT Press Essential Knowledge series offers accessible, concise, beautifully produced pocket-size books on topics of current interest. Written by leading thinkers, the books in this series deliver expert overviews of subjects that range from the cultural and the historical to the scientific and the technical.
In today’s era of instant information gratification, we have ready access to opinions, rationalizations, and superficial descriptions. Much harder to come by is the foundational knowledge that informs a principled understanding of the world. Essential Knowledge books fill that need. Synthesizing specialized subject matter for nonspecialists and engaging critical topics through fundamentals, each of these compact volumes offers readers a point of access to complex ideas.
Bruce Tidor
Professor of Biological Engineering and Computer Science
Massachusetts Institute of Technology



Acknowledgments

Writing a book is a huge investment in time and energy. This one was no exception. I’d like to thank Eileen Feretic at Baseline
 magazine for assigning a magazine story that served as the seed for many