













Praise for The Personal MBA 10th Anniversary Edition
“A goldmine of useful ideas and helpful explanations. Every entrepreneur should own a copy.”
—James Clear, author of the million-copy bestseller Atomic Habits
“Josh has done more for my business education than my MBA. The Personal MBA walks you through the mental models you need to excel in business. A lifetime of business knowledge in one volume.”
—Shane Parrish, founder of Farnam Street (fs.blog) and host of The Knowledge Project podcast
“A masterpiece. This is the ‘start here’ book I recommend to everyone interested in business. An amazing overview of everything you need to know. Covers all of the basics, minus buzzwords and fluff. One of the most inspiring things I’ve read in years.”
—Derek Sivers, founder of CD Baby and bestselling author of Anything You Want
“The Personal MBA is the single best business book I’ve read. Most books focus on a single part of business in isolation, but The Personal MBA walks you through every moving part, and gives you the tools to understand how those parts work together to create a complete system.”
—Amy Hoy, founder of Noko Time Tracking and Stacking the Bricks
“The only business book I recommend. Josh somehow condenses an entire library of crucial knowledge into a short book that’s eminently readable, so you can spend less time reading and more time building your business. It’s perfect for both providing an overview and serving as a reference. I revisit The Personal MBA more than any other book on my shelf.”
—Courtland Allen, cofounder of Indie Hackers
“I read The Personal MBA cover to cover when it was first released and it had a major impact on how I view business. It’s incredible how Josh was able to distill hundreds of books and hundreds of years of business knowledge into this succinct and elegant tome.”
—Rob Walling, cofounder of MicroConf and bestselling author of Start Small, Stay Small
“Ten years ago, I got an MBA education courtesy of Kaufman’s book. His practical business insights and mindset techniques haven’t let me down since. The Personal MBA is the most distilled, most accelerated MBA on the planet: all of the insights, none of the ego.”
—Joanna Wiebe, founder of Copyhackers
“My well-worn copy of The Personal MBA has been sitting within arm’s reach by my desk for the better part of the past decade. Since starting and growing my own business, this book has been my go-to manual for insights, clarity, and wisdom that I never learned in school.”
—Shawn Blanc, founder of The Sweet Setup and The Focus Course
“Ten years after reading (and rereading and rereading) The Personal MBA, I still refer to it often and use it to make better decisions. Whether it’s building a business plan to launch my writing studio, planning my day, or taking a systematic approach to identify and solve problems, I can’t think of any other book that’s had such a positive impact on my overall productivity and enjoyment of life.”
—Daniel Joshua Rubin, playwrig