



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I could fill this entire book with the names and accomplishments of people to whom I owe gratitude and appreciation. The following list is in no way comprehensive, and I apologize in advance to anyone I’ve left out. I thank all of you frequently in my heart, even if I fail to do so in print now.
First of all, I want to thank the genius shining through Peter Levine in his lifelong search to alleviate human suffering, culminating in Somatic Experiencing (SE). Peter was instrumental in my own personal healing journey from extreme trauma toward regaining resiliency and enhancing a deep understanding that supported my professional endeavors and insights all along the way. I want to thank his past and present SE faculty—especially those friends I worked most closely with: Nancy Napier, Maggie Phillips, Raja Selvam, Marianne Bentzen, Anngwyn St. Just, Steve Hoskinson, Larry Heller, and Kathy Kain. I also want to send my appreciation to the amazing Somatic Experiencing staff at SETI and Ergos Institute, specifically Justin Snavely.
I also owe a huge debt to the greats of attachment theory, as well as the amazing therapists, authors, and researchers doing incredible work in the fields of trauma recovery and enhancing connection and healing in relationships—John Bowlby, Mary Ainsworth, Mary Main, Marion Solomon, Ed Tronick, Allan Schore, Sue Johnson, Maggie Phillips, Diana Fosha, David Wallin, Amir Levine, Rachel Heller, Stan Tatkin, Tracey Boldemann-Tatkin, Ellyn Bader, Peter Pearson, Terry Real, Pat Love, Michele Wiener-Davis, Joan Borysenko, Linda Graham, Lisa Ferenz, Mary Jo Barrett, Bill O’Hanlon, Peter Cummings, David Grand, Bruce Ecker, Frank Anderson, Richard Schwartz, John Howard, Rachel Cahn, and Jeff Pincus. I am blessed that so many are current collaborators. I offer my eternal admiration and gratitude to all of you.
I also want to thank Stephen Porges for his intelligence, warmth, and revolutionary research that underlies so much somatic work being done today. On that note, I extend my gratitude to the brilliance of Dan Siegel, Bonnie Badenoch, Janina Fisher, Pat Ogden, Rick Hanson, Bessel van der Kolk, Robert Scaer, Babette Rothschild, Belleruth Naparstek, Ray Castellino, Bonnie Mark-Goldstein, and John and Anna Chitty for their furtherance of effectively using somatic strategies as well as neuroscience for trauma resolution and the understanding of the critical importance of healing attachment injury. I also give thanks to John Bilorusky for providing me with excellent guidance during my PhD studies at Western Institute for Social Research (WISR).
I want to heartfully offer my gratitude to my co-teachers of the Dynamic Attachment Re-patterning experience (DARe) and Somatic Attachment Training experience (SATe) professional training programs: Patti Elledge, Patricia Meadows, Elisabeth Schneider-Kaiser, Alicen Halquist, Sara Swift, and Judith Beermann Zeligson as well as countless dedicated assistants including but in no wa