















The Product is Docs

Writing technical documentation in a product development group

Christopher Gales and the Splunk Documentation Team








Copyright © 2020 Christopher Gales
All rights reserved.Splunk® is a registered trademark of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. Any use of a trademarked name without a trademark symbol is for readability purposes only.








Contents


Title Page
Copyright
Preface to the Second Edition
1.   Introduction
2.   Agile
3.   Audience
4.   Collaborative Authoring
5.   Customer Feedback and Community
6.   Documentation Decisions
7.   Documenting Third-party Products
8.   Hiring, Training, and Managing Documentation Teams
9.   Learning Objectives
10.    Maintaining Existing Content
11.    Measuring Success
12.    Organizing Documentation Tiger Teams
13.    Research for Technical Writers
14.    Scenario-driven Information Development
15.    Technical Editing
16.    Technical Verification
17.    Tools and Content Delivery
18.    Working with Customer Support
19.    Working with Engineers
20.    Working with the Field
21.    Working with Marketing
22.    Working with Product Management
23.    Working with Remote Teams
24.    Working with User Experience and Design
25.    Writing SaaS Documentation
26.    Afterword and Acknowledgments








Preface to the Second Edition

In the two years since we first published The Product is Docs, the book has found an enthusiastic audience of documentarians, designers, product managers, developers, customer success managers, sales engineers, teachers of technical writing, and more. The royalties from the book have enabled us to donate thousands of dollars to a dozen different charities. And most important, the book has had the effect we hoped it would: to spark productive discussions in teams and companies around the world—and in the technical writing profession itself—about how to write technical documentation in a product development group. As just one example, two months before the publication of this second edition, a collection of Write the Docs community members gathered in a Slack channel to read a chapter every day and discuss it. We avidly followed that conversation and took a lot of notes, many of which are incorporated into this volume.
The other changes and additions are the result of the past two years of experience within our team and our products group, and also because we thought of a few things we just plain missed the first time.
Here are the new chapters:


Chapter 6, “Documentation Decisions”
Chapter 12, “Organizing Documentation Tiger Teams”
Chapter 20, “Working with the Field”
Chapter 25, “Writing SaaS Documentation”

In addition, we made substantial revisions to the following chapters:


Chapter 5, “Customer Feedback and Community”.We added a new section about working with the community and retitled the chapter accordingly.
Chapter 7, 