Listening Skills Training How to Truly Listen, Understand, and Validate for Better and Deeper ConnectionsPUBLISHED BY: James W. Williams © Copyright 2021 - All rights reserved. The content contained within this book may not be reproduced, duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from the author or the publisher. Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages, reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained within this book. Either directly or indirectly. Legal Notice: This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the author or publisher. Disclaimer Notice: Please note the information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has been executed to present accurate, up to date, and reliable, complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice. The content within this book has been derived from various sources. Please consult a licensed professional before attempting any techniques outlined in this book. By reading this document, the reader agrees that under no circumstances is the author responsible for any losses, direct or indirect, which are incurred as a result of the use of information contained within this document, including, but not limited to, — errors, omissions, or inaccuracies.Table Of Contents Your Free Gift Introduction Chapter One - Never Has the World Been Louder, Yet No One Is Listening Chapter Two - The Psychology of Listening Chapter Three - How to Be a Better Active Listener 101 Chapter Four - Validation: The Key to Extraordinary Listening Chapter Five - The Art of Mindreading Through Awareness Chapter Six - Addressing the Obstacles of Listening Chapter Seven - Continuing the Conversation Final Thoughts ReferencesJoin Our Support Group In order to maximize the value you get from this book, I strongly encourage you to join our tight-knit community on Facebook. You will be able to connect and share with other like-minded people to continue your growth. Don’t take this journey alone, and this can be an excellent support network for you. It would be great to connect with you there, -James Williams. >>Click Here to Join Our Personal Development Support Group <<Your Free Gift As a way of saying thanks for your purchase, I’m offering the book Bulletproof Confidence Checklist for FREE to my readers. To get instant access just go to: https://theartofmastery.com/confidence/ Inside the book, you will discover: Why we develop shyness & social anxiety Powerful strategies for overcoming social anxiety Become more confident by destroying these negative traits How to easily prevent the “awkward silence”