Discover Your Next Great Read Get sneak peeks, book recommendations, and news about your favorite authors. Tap here to learn more .Explore book giveaways, sneak peeks, deals, and more. Tap here to learn more .Published by A LGONQUIN B OOKS OF C HAPEL H ILL an imprint of Little, Brown and Company a division of Hachette Book Group, Inc. 1290 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10104 The Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill name and logo are registered trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc. © 2025 by Dean Spade. All rights reserved. Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture. The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights. Design by Steve Godwin. The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available. ISBN 978-1-64375-646-2 (paperback) ISBN 978-1-64375-647-9 (ebook) First Edition E3-20241216-JV-NF-ORIContents Cover Title Page Copyright Dedication Introduction 1 Dominant Culture’s Scripts Are Still Shaping Our Relationships Feeling Bad While Things Are Bad Breaking Ties with Tired Cultural Scripts Central Lies of the Romance Myth How Does the Romance Myth Mess Up Our Relationships? The Truth About Love Marriage Isn’t Love or Liberation Scarcity Mentality Disposability Culture “What Else Is True?”: Getting Perspective When We’re Grabbed by Cultural Scripts and Autopilot Reactions Why Bother Doing Emotional Work? What Will This Get Me? Can People Really Change? You Are What You Practice 2 Stuck on Autopilot: Swinging between Numbness and Temporary Highs Numbing to Get By in a Painful World Mostly Numb, but Chasing Fantasies Building Awareness of Nuance and Subtlety Tools for Building Emotional Awareness Costs of a Limited Emotional Range Numbness and Emotional Labor Numbness and Respectability Politics Numbness and Microaggressions Accountability: Not Minimizing, Not Punishing Chasing Cultural Fantasies about Sex and Romance Getting High Where All This Chasing Leads Waking Up to Reality, or “Being Present” 3 Falling in Love and Losing Your Mind: The Romance Cycle Childhood Shaping Falling in Love Denying Parts of Ourselves and Performing False Selves Leaving the Honeymoon Phase Entering the Conflict Phase Urgent Demands, Agitated Emotions, and Accusations in the Conflict Phase The Romance Cycle Shows Up in Nonromantic Relationships, Too Navigating the Conflict Phase Breaking Up Should We Break Up? When We Do Break Up 4 Encountering Fear, and the Courage to Say Yes and No Fears of Abandonment and Engulfment Staying Connected, Even When We’r