Praise for THE LOVE HYPOTHESIS “Contemporary romance’s unicorn: the elusive marriage of deeply brainy and delightfully escapist. . . . The Love Hypothesis has wild commercial appeal, but the quieter secret is that there is a specific audience, made up of all of the Olives in the world, who have deeply, ardently waited for this exact book.” — New York Times bestselling author Christina Lauren “Funny, sexy, and smart. Ali Hazelwood did a terrific job with The Love Hypothesis .” — New York Times bestselling author Mariana Zapata “This tackles one of my favorite tropes—Grumpy meets Sunshine—in a fun and utterly endearing way. . . . I loved the nods toward fandom and romance novels, and I couldn’t put it down. Highly recommended!” — New York Times bestselling author Jessica Clare “A beautifully written romantic comedy with a heroine you will instantly fall in love with, The Love Hypothesis is destined to earn a place on your keeper shelf.” —Elizabeth Everett, author of A Lady’s Formula for Love “Smart, witty dialogue and a diverse cast of likable secondary characters. . . . A realistic, amusing novel that readers won’t be able to put down.” — Library Journal (starred review) “With whip-smart and endearing characters, snappy prose, and a quirky take on a favorite trope, Hazelwood convincingly navigates the fraught shoals of academia. . . . This smart, sexy contemporary should delight a wide swath of romance lovers.” — Publishers WeeklyTITLES BY ALI HAZELWOOD •   •   • The Love Hypothesis Love on the Brain LOATHE TO LOVE YOU Under One Roof Stuck with You Below ZeroA JOVE BOOK Published by Berkley An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC penguinrandomhouse.com Copyright © 2022 by Ali Hazelwood Penguin Random House supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. A JOVE BOOK, BERKLEY, and the BERKLEY & B colophon are registered trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Names: Hazelwood, Ali, author. Title: Love on the brain / Ali Hazelwood. Description: First Edition. | New York: Jove, 2022. Identifiers: LCCN 2021053843 | ISBN 9780593336847 (trade paperback) | ISBN 9780593336854 (ebook) Subjects: GSAFD: Love stories. Classification: LCC PS3608.A98845 L69 2022 | DDC 813/.6—dc23 LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021053843 First Edition: August 2022 Cover illustration by lilithsaur Title page art: space icons © kosmofish / Shutterstock Book design by Alison Cnockaert, adapted for ebook by Kelly Brennan This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fic