CONTENTS Cover Title Page Dedication Preface CHAPTER ONE: Start Your Day with a Task Completed CHAPTER TWO: You Can’t Go It Alone CHAPTER THREE: Only the Size of Your Heart Matters CHAPTER FOUR: Life’s Not Fair—Drive On! CHAPTER FIVE: Failure Can Make You Stronger CHAPTER SIX: You Must Dare Greatly CHAPTER SEVEN: Stand Up to the Bullies CHAPTER EIGHT: Rise to the Occasion CHAPTER NINE: Give People Hope CHAPTER TEN: Never, Ever Quit! The University of Texas Commencement Speech Acknowledgments About the Author Navigation Begin Reading Table of ContentsTo my three children: Bill, John, and Kelly. No father could be prouder of his kids than I am of you. Every moment in my life has been made better because you are in the world. And to my wife, Georgeann, my best friend, who made all of my dreams possible. Where would I be without you?PREFACE On May 17, 2014, I was honored to give the commencement speech for the graduating class from the University of Texas at Austin. Even though the university was my alma mater, I was concerned that a military officer, whose career had been defined by war, might not find a welcoming audience among college students. But to my great surprise, the graduating class embraced the speech. The ten lessons I learned from Navy SEAL training, which were the basis for my remarks, seemed to have a universal appeal. They were simple lessons that deal with overcoming the trials of SEAL training, but the ten lessons were equally important in dealing with the challenges of life—no matter who you are. Over the past three years, I have been stopped on the street by great folks telling me their own stories: How they didn’t back down from the sharks, how they didn’t ring the bell, or how making their bed every morning helped them through tough times. They all wanted to know more about how the ten lessons shaped my life and about the people who inspired me during my career. This small book is an attempt to do so. Each chapter gives a little more context to the individual lessons and also adds a short story about some of the people who inspired me with their discipline, their perseverance, their honor, and their courage. I hope you enjoy the book!CHAPTER ONE Start Your Day with a Task CompletedIf you want to change the world… start off by making your bed.T he barracks at basic SEAL training is a nondescript three-story building located on the beach at Coronado, California, just one hundred yards from the Pacific Ocean. There is no air-conditioning in the building, and at night, with the windows open, you can hear the tide roll in and the surf pounding against the sand. Rooms in the barracks are spartan. In the officers’ room, where I berthed with three other classmates, there were four beds, a closet to hang your uniforms, and nothing else. Those mornings that I stayed in the barracks I would roll out of my Navy “rack” and immediately begin the process of making my bed. It was the first task of the day. A day that I knew would be filled wit