ALSO BY HARUKI MURAKAMI FICTION 1 Q 84 After Dark After the Quake Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage Dance Dance Dance The Elephant Vanishes Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World Kafka on the Shore Norwegian Wood South of the Border, West of the Sun Sputnik Sweetheart The Strange Library A Wild Sheep Chase Wind/Pinball The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle NONFICTION Absolutely on Music (with Seiji Ozawa) Underground: The Tokyo Gas Attack and the Japanese Psyche What I Talk About When I Talk About Running: A Memoir OceanofPDF.comA NOTE ABOUT THE AUTHOR Haruki Murakami was born in Kyoto in 1949 and now lives near Tokyo. His work has been translated into more than fifty languages, and the most recent of his many international honors is the Jerusalem Prize, whose previous recipients include J. M. Coetzee, Milan Kundera, and V. S. Naipaul. OceanofPDF.comDRIVE MY CAR BASED ON THE MANY TIMES he had ridden in cars driven by women, Kafuku had reached the conclusion that most female drivers fell into one of two categories: either they were a little too aggressive or a little too timid. Luckily—and we should all be grateful for this—the latter were far more common. Generally speaking, women were more cautious than men behind the wheel. Of course, that caution was nothing to complain about. Yet their driving style tended to irritate others on the road. Most of the aggressive women, on the other hand, seemed convinced they were great drivers. In most cases, they showed their timid sisters nothing but scorn, and were proud that they, at least, weren’t like that. They were oblivious to the gasps and slammed brakes that accompanied their sudden and daring lane changes, and to the less-than-complimentary words directed at them by their fellow drivers. Of course, not all women belonged to one of those two groups. There were those normal drivers who were neither too aggressive nor too cautious. Some could even be called experts. Nevertheless, somehow or other, even with those expert female drivers, Kafuku usually sensed a certain tension. There was no concrete reason that he could point to, but from where he sat in the passenger seat he felt a kind of friction in the air, and it made him tense. His throat would turn dry, or he would start saying foolish, totally unnecessary things just to bury the silence. Certainly there were good and bad male drivers too. Yet in most cases their driving didn’t create the same charged atmosphere. It wasn’t that they were especially laid back. In reality, they were probably tense too. Nevertheless, they seemed to be able to separate their tension and who they were in a natural—likely unconscious—way. They could converse and act normally even while focused on the road. As in, that belongs there and this belongs here. Kafuku had no idea where this difference between men and women drivers came from. Kafuku seldom drew distinctions between men and women in his daily life. Nor was he apt to