Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available through the Library of Congress © 2018 Sasha Brown-Worsham ISBN-13: 978-07573-2060-6 (Paperback) ISBN-10: 07573-2060-0 (Paperback) ISBN-13: 978-07573-2061-3 (ePub) ISBN-10: 07573-2061-9 (ePub) All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the written permission of the publisher. HCI, its logos, and marks are trademarks of Health Communications, Inc. Publisher: Health Communications, Inc. 3201 S.W. 15th Street Deerfield Beach, FL 33442–8190 Cover and interior design and formatting by Lawna Patterson OldfieldContents Introduction 1. Centering Fastest Girl in the ’Hood Mom Can’t Braid Strange Breath Teaching Friends to Meditate What’s in a Name? First Crow 2. Breathing How My Parents Met We Caught It Early Samskaras 3. Connecting Me as a Teen Versus Mom as a Teen First Bra Experiments in Cooking Seaweed Guilt Trips over Yoga A Week at Kripalu 4. Saluting Guinea Pig Death No. 1 Ouija Board Fight Tarot Card Reading Auras in Death and Dying The Aura Book and Show-and-Tell Guilt Trips from My Own Daughter 5. Flowing First Meeting with Gurudev Coming Back to Yoga Yoga as a Young Mom 6. Balancing My Mother’s Journals A New Name More Secrets and Balcony Jumping Becoming a Woman, Part One 7. Strengthening Easter Tornado and the Last Photo of My Mom Icelandic Cape First Pregnancy and Yoga 8. Surrendering Spider in a Jar — First Time Scattering the Ashes, Eventually Happy Baby (The Pose You Hate) Another Tarot Card Reading Reiki Attunement and Seeing Energy Mayan Sound Healing First Mammogram: A Legacy of Cancer Going Vegan 9. Integrating Be Here Now: My First Teaching Job Guinea Pig Death No. 2 Becoming a Woman, Part Two Spider in a Jar — Second Time 10. Rebirthing Kripalu Now Reiki, Level One Men Who Hate Yoga Practicing with Samara Acknowledgments About the AuthorIntroduction T his is my story of yoga, death, pain and discomfort, growth and presence, and being reborn even in grief. A yoga class consists of various steps. We arrive and start to center, often on our backs. We let outside concerns float away and notice the little pains and discomforts we have brought with us. Then we start to notice the breath, the rise and fall of hands on our chest and belly, the gentle pull and push that keeps us alive but that we rarely focus on in the way it deserves. This breath is life. Next we move, connecting that breath to the body. We undulate the spine in cat and cow postures, or we twist, lying supine on our backs. Each inhalation provides a chance to strengthen and embolden. Each exhalation is an opportunity to surrender and melt a little deeper. Eventually we find the top of the mat — Urdhva Hastasana (upward salute). We reach for the sky, then dive down to the earth. After sun salutations, we 