Not Moving Out Cover Title Page Dedication Chapter One Chapter Two Chapter Three Chapter Four Chapter Five Chapter Six Chapter Seven Chapter Eight Chapter Nine Chapter Ten Chapter Eleven Chapter Twelve Chapter Thirteen Chapter Fourteen Chapter Fifteen Chapter Sixteen Chapter Seventeen Chapter Eighteen Chapter Nineteen Chapter Twenty Chapter Twenty-One Chapter Twenty-Two Chapter Twenty-Three Chapter Twenty-Four Chapter Twenty-Five Chapter Twenty-Six Chapter Twenty-Seven Chapter Twenty-Eight Chapter Twenty-Nine Chapter Thirty Chapter Thirty-One Chapter Thirty-Two Chapter Thirty-Three Chapter Thirty-Four Chapter Thirty-Five Chapter Thirty-Six Chapter Thirty-Seven Chapter Thirty-Eight Chapter Thirty-Nine Chapter Forty Chapter Forty-One A Letter from Jon Acknowledgements About the Author Also by Jon Rance Copyright Title Page Cover Table of Contents Start of ContentDedication To Charlotte and JackChapter One Joe Freya and I agreed to meet at Pelicano Coffee Co in The Lanes, which we had been to before during happier times and it was one of our favourites. We could have held the meeting in the comfortable surroundings of home, but we thought a neutral venue like the Paris Peace Conference after the First World War was probably better. Paris seemed a little far, and so we decided on one of the best coffee spots in Brighton instead. We were meeting to discuss the terms of our separation, write a manifesto of a way forward, while sipping coffees and nibbling on pastries on a damp morning in late March. It was a thoroughly depressing occasion, but at least the coffee would be on point. ‘I see a table back there,’ said Freya tentatively, looking towards the rear of the coffee shop. ‘Right, I’ll get the coffees. The usual?’ ‘The usual,’ said Freya, with a nostalgic glance towards me that sated both of our needs for something meaningful in a morning that had, until that point, felt unwaveringly practical and devoid of the emotion it deserved. It was like watching one of the royal family lay a wreath on Remembrance Day. You knew there were emotions beneath the surface, but they were so focused on doing a good job, and not falling over in front of the nation, it always came across as a bit robotic. I ordered Freya her usual oat milk latte, and my flat white, plus a couple of pastries, and waited for those before I walked across and sat opposite my wife. It felt like a strange term considering she hadn’t felt like my wife or done anything a bit ‘wifey’ for quite a while, but until all of this played out, she was still my other half. Better half? Probably. Freya Jane Wallace was forty-five, and still beautiful in the same way she had always been beautiful to me. Strawberry-blonde hair, cornflower-blue eyes and pale skin she usually applied make-up to, to render her darker than she actually was, and to cover up the freckles she didn’t like but that I adored. On family holidays in years gone by, she would go the entire week make-up free, and I would get to see that