On ConfidenceOther books in this series: Why You Will Marry the Wrong Person Why We Hate Cheap Things How to Find Love Self-Knowledge The Sorrows of Work The Sorrows of LoveOn Confidence The School of LifePublished in 2017 by The School of Life 70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB Copyright © The School of Life 2017 Designed and typeset by Marcia Mihotich Printed in Latvia by Livonia Print All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated without express prior consent of the publisher. A proportion of this book has appeared online at thebookoflife.org Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity. The School of Life offers programmes, publications and services to assist modern individuals in their quest to live more engaged and meaningful lives. We’ve also developed a collection of content-rich, design-led retail products to promote useful insights and ideas from culture. www.theschooloflife.com ISBN 978-1-9997471-0-7Contents I Introduction II Idiocy and Confidence III Impostor Syndrome IV Trust in the System V History is Now VI Experience VII Death VIII Enemies IX Self-Sabotage X Confidence in ConfidenceI Introduction It can be humbling to realise just how many great achievements have not been the result of superior talent or technical know-how, merely that strange buoyancy of the soul we call confidence. We spend vast amounts of time acquiring confidence in narrow technical fields: quadratic equations or bioengineering; economics or pole vaulting. But we overlook the primordial need to acquire a more free-ranging variety of confidence – one that can serve us across a range of tasks: speaking to strangers at parties, asking someone to marry us, suggesting a fellow passenger turn down their music, changing the world. We so often lack confidence because we implicitly regard its possession as a matter of slightly freakish and irreplicable good luck. Some people simply are very confident, for reasons that neuroscientists may one day uncover. But, we tell ourselves, there isn’t much we can do about our particular situation. We are stuck with the confidence levels we were born with. In fact, the opposite is true. Confidence is a skill, not a gift from the gods. And it is a skill founded on a set of ideas about the world and our natural place within it. These ideas can be systematically studied and gradually learnt, so that the roots of excessive hesitancy and compliance can be overcome. We can school ourselves in the art of confidence.II Idiocy and Confidence In well-meaning attempts to boost our confidence ahead of challenging moments, people often try to draw our attention to our strengths: our intelligence, our competence, our experience. However, this can have awkward consequences. There is a 