G. P. Putnam’s Sons Publishers Since 1838 An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC penguinrandomhouse.com Copyright © 2025 by Bryana Kappadakunnel Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems. Graphic on this page based on the “Ladder of Needs” created by Conscious Mommy, LLC, copyright © 2023 Conscious Mommy, LLC. All rights reserved. Hardcover ISBN 9780593716519 Ebook ISBN 9780593716526 Cover design: Sandra Chiu Cover image: LIGHTFIELD STUDIOS / Adobe Stock Book design by Daniel Brount, adapted for ebook by Maggie Hunt All names and identifying characteristics have been changed to protect the privacy of the individuals involved. pid_prh_7.0a_150090323_c0_r0To my children, whose laughter is my favorite sound, and to my husband, who saw in me what I failed to see in myselfContents • • • • • • Dedication Introduction Part One Caring for the Child Within You Chapter 1 Say Hello to Your Inner Child Chapter 2 Break Unhealthy Family Cycles Chapter 3 Self-Awareness Sets You Free Chapter 4 The Beauty of Boundaries Part Two Caring for the Child in Front of You Chapter 5 Cultivating the Connection Garden Chapter 6 Demystifying Your Child’s Behavior Chapter 7 Calming Their Stress and Anxiety Chapter 8 Ending Power Struggles Chapter 9 Mastering Discipline Part Three Caring for the Whole Family Chapter 10 Navigating Sibling Dynamics Chapter 11 Aligning with Your Parenting Partner Conclusion Caring for Your Community and Beyond Acknowledgments Notes Recommended Reading and Resources Index About the Author _150090323_Introduction • • • • • • I know why I wrote this book. (More on that in a minute.) But why did you pick up this book? You may have picked up this book because parenting is hard, because you’re exhausted by all the demands, because you feel triggered by your child’s behaviors, or because you’re scared you’re becoming your parents (although you promised yourself you never would). I’m here to tell you: it’s normal to struggle with parenting. It is one of the hardest things you’ll ever do. And parenting is especially challenging if you’re trying to heal from your past hurts while also showing up for your child in a whole, healed way. Every family is different. Your parents may have been strict, or permissive, or absent, or abusive, or overwhelmed. Maybe they were caught up in their own personal struggles. Or perhaps they just didn’t show up for you in the way you needed as a child. Whatever the cause