Powerful Focus A 7-Day Plan to Develop Mental Clarity and Build Strong Focus Thibaut MeurisseContents Who is this book for? Your Free Step-by-Step Workbook Your Productivity Series Introduction I. Gaining clarity Day 1—15 questions to identify what you want Day 2—Gaining clarity regarding what you want Day 3—Gaining clarity regarding what needs to be done Day 4—Gaining clarity regarding how it needs to be done II. Eliminate Distractions and Obstacles Day 5—Simplifying Day 6—Reducing useless input Day 7—Eliminating friction and energy waste Conclusion Other Books By The Authors: About the AuthorWho is this book for? Do you keep jumping from one task to the next? Do you struggle to stay focused long enough to achieve success? Is your mind all over the place? If so, you need to develop Deep Focus. More specifically, you’ll find this book useful if you want to: Eliminate distractions and develop laser-sharp focus Stop jumping from one shiny object to the next Overcome information overload so that you can move forward with your goals Gain clarity about your goals so that you can focus on what matters And much more So are you ready to develop unshakeable focus and get things done?Your Free Step-By-Step Workbook To help build unshakeable focus I’ve created a workbook as a companion guide to this book. Make sure you download it at the following URL: https:// whatispersonaldevelopment. org/ powerful- focus If you have any difficulties downloading the workbook contact me at: thibaut.meurisse@gmail.com and I will send it to you as soon as possible.Boost your productivity now with The Productivity Series This book is the third book in the “Productivity Series” . You can check out the first book, “Dopamine Detox” below: Click here to get “Dopamine Detox”Introduction The ability to focus is one of the most valuable assets you’ll ever develop. When you use it to achieve your most exciting goals, you can reach levels of success you would never have imagined possible. Often, the difference between an average person and a highly successful one is their level of focus. Successful people know what they want and place all their focus into the accomplishment of their goals. By doing so consistently over a long period of time, they turbocharge their productivity and achieve most of their goals. What about you? Are you the master of your focus or the slave of distractions? In Deep Focus , you’ll learn how to move from distracted to laser-sharp focused in just seven days. Each day, you’ll be given exercises to strengthen your focus. By the end of the seven days, you’ll have developed a deeper understanding of what focus is, how focus works and you will be well on your way to becoming one of the most focused people you know. In Part I. Gaining Clarity , we’ll work on refining your vision. As you develop a clearer vision, you’ll be better able to identify the key tasks to work on today, this week, and this month. The more clarity you gain, the easier it will be for you to 