












Table of Contents
Title
Copyright
Reviews
Introduction
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
References
About the Author
Other Books
Publisher






 
 
THE
 
MOUNTAIN
IS
 
YOU
 
 
TRANSFORMING SELF-SABOTAGE
TO SELF-MASTERY
 
 
BRIANNA WIEST
 
 
 
 



 
THOUGHTCATALOG.COM
NEW YORK • LOS ANGELES






 
Copyright © 2020 Brianna Wiest. All rights reserved.
Published by Thought Catalog Books, an imprint of the digital magazine Thought Catalog, which is owned and operated by The Thought & Expression Company LLC, an independent media organization based in Brooklyn, New York and Los Angeles, California.
This book was produced by Chris Lavergne and Noelle Beams and designed by KJ Parish. Visit us on the web at thoughtcatalog.com and shopcatalog.com.
Made in the United States of America. ISBN 978-1-949759-22-8
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1






“Brianna’s book is a beautiful expression of healing. Her insights on self-sabotage, emotional intelligence, and deep transformation are invaluable. She understands that change begins with self, and her book is a gift to the collective.”
— DR . NICOLE LEPERA, “The Holistic Psychologist”
 
“I’m of the belief that in fulfilling our deepest potential, the greatest rewards come less from outcomes and more from who we must become in order to achieve what we know we are truly capable of. In this beautifully written and eye-opening book, Brianna Wiest inspires us to scale our own mountains with powerful insights to help prepare you for the climb ahead. A must-read for those ready to do the inner work required to live a life of fulfillment, wonder, and enjoyment!”
— SIMON ALEXANDER ONG, International Life Coach & Business Strategist
 
“The Mountain Is You is a wake-up call that inspires hope in adversity. You’re invited to burn the rules of what you’ve been taught about yourself, as you awaken your inner hero and consciously choose a new narrative, and ultimately, create a life you deeply desire and deserve. Brianna provides an alchemy of pragmatic tools and deep soul shifts to build the courage and clarity required to climb your own personal mountain—and essentially, remember who you came here to be. The ultimate seeker’s guide for those brave enough to face their true north and take their power back.”
— JENNA BLACK, International Coach
 
“Brianna Wiest is one of my favorite writers. She combines life-changing wisdom with a unique eloquence that inspires readers to reclaim their power and change their lives for the better. The Mountain Is You is bound to help many people.”
— YUNG PUEBLO, Best-Selling Author of “Inward”
 
“A revelation. The words wrote struck me so deep inside, there were several moments that I had to pause from reading because my eyes filled with tears of realization and confirmation.”
— DAWN ZULUETA, Film-Television Actress, Host & Model
 
“Brianna Wiest’s masterpiece is the perfect roadmap for understanding why we self-sabotage, when we do it, and how to stop doing