QUIT PORN AND GET RICH: THE UNSPOKEN RULE OF SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE Martin PrescottCopyright © 2018 Martin Prescott All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be copied, transmitted, or broadcast in any form in mass media without the author’s express consent. The information in this book is not a substitute for professional medical advice, and it is not intended for medical diagnosis or treatment. In case of health problems and before starting/ending treatment, consult a specialist. Neither the author nor the publisher take any responsibility for any effects resulting from following the content and advice contained in this book, nor for the general mood that readers may experience after reading this publication. The author supports his thesis by referring to research and opinions which have been cited for educational purposes only. Each publication referenced should be read in its entirety and interpreted separately, outside the context of this publication. The author’s opinions cannot be treated as scientifically supported claims. The author does not guarantee the reader wealth or improvement in his/her life in any sense of the word. The events of the main character’s life have been adapted to fit the story. The names of the characters have been changed, and any resemblance to real life persons or situations is accidental.Contents Dedication Foreword 1. Introduction 2. System basics 2.1. The most common problems 2.2. How it works 2.3. Supernormal stimuli 2.4. Chemicals and hormones 2.5. Where do we begin 3. What has been seen cannot be unseen 3.1. Remembering 3.2. Research on brain performance 3.3. Physical changes in the brain 3.4. The brain in action 4. What is on our minds? 4.1. Precious novelty 4.2. Ideas produce value 4.3. Money doesn’t grow on trees (first unsuccessful businesses) 4.4. More information means more opportunities 4.5. The first successful business 5. I’m the captain now 5.1. Intangible assets 5.2. Research on self-control 5.3. Development of self-control 5.4. Weakness as an advantage 5.5. Quitting porn 6. Fight for your right… or negotiate 6.1. The importance of attitude 6.2. Self-control in negotiations 6.3. The future is negotiable 7. Getting accustomed to risk 7.1. The bright side of uncertainty 7.2. Research on risk-taking 7.3. A step into the unknown 8. Patience is a virtue 8.1. Nothing happens by chance 8.2. Research on patience 8.3. The fruits of my labor 9. Real people 9.1. Building relationships 9.2. Jumping in at the deep end 10. Experience of society 10.1. Older teachings 10.2. Sport 10.3. The pornography industry 11. Do your best Afterword ResourcesDedication I dedicate this book in memory of all the great ideas and opportunities wasted as a result of watching porn.Foreword We all want to get rich. Every day, we pass jaw-dropping, luxurious cars in the street. We keep up with the latest technological innovations and we desire every new gadget that appears on the market. We imagine traveling to the four corner