 
System Energy Optimisation Strategies for 
DC Railway Traction Power Networks  
by 
Zhongbei Tian 
A thesis submitted to  
the University of Birmingham  
for the degree of 
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
 
Department of Electronic, Electrical and Systems Engineering 
College of Engineering and Physical Sciences 
University of Birmingham, UK 
June 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
University of Birmingham Research Archive 
 
e-theses repository 
 
 
This unpublished thesis/dissertation is copyright of the author and/or third 
parties. The intellectual property rights of the author or third parties in respect 
of this work are as defined by The Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988 or 
as modified by any successor legislation.   
 
Any use made of information contained in this thesis/dissertation must be in 
accordance with that legislation and must be properly acknowledged.  Further 
distribution or reproduction in any format is prohibited without the permission 
of the copyright holder.  
 
 
 
Abstract 
i 
 
 
Abstract 
As a result of rapid global urbanisation, energy and environmental sustainability are 
becoming increasingly significant. According to the Rail Transport and Environment 
Report published by International Union of Railways in 2015, energy used in the 
transportation sector accounts for approximately 32% of final energy consumption in the 
EU. Railway, representing over 8.5% of the total traffic in volume, shares less than 2% of 
the transport energy consumption. Railway plays an important role in reducing energy 
usage and CO2 emissions, compared with other transport modes such as road transport. 
However, despite the inherent efficiency, the energy used by the rail industry is still high, 
making the study of railway energy efficiency of global importance. Previous studies have 
investigated train driving strategies for traction energy saving. However, few of them 
consider the overall system energy optimisation, which depends on various factors 
including driving styles and timetables. This thesis aims to find a system energy 
optimisation solution for urban railways. 
This thesis begins with a review of the main arrangement of the railway systems and 
literature on energy optimisation studies in railways. The development of the energy 
evaluation simulation software for DC-fed railway systems is demonstrated. The train 
movement model and railway power network model are integrated into the simulator. This 
energy simulator is able to calculate the energy flow of the whole system according to 
multiple-train driving controls and timetables.  
