OceanofPDF.comAdvance Praise for Rise Above “Self-actualization is possible for each of us, and there we find a better, happier future. But that means avoiding the traps and barriers we set for ourselves. Scott Barry Kaufman’s brilliant new book Rise Above is the evidence-based manual we need to be free.” —Arthur C. Brooks, Harvard professor and bestselling author of From Strength to Strength and Build the Life You Want “ Rise Above is a welcome and necessary antidote to the victim narrative that plagues our time. Part memoir, part case study, part scientific tool kit, this book provides both inspiration and practical guidance. A must-read for anyone who wants to move from grievance to gratitude for a more fulfilling life.” —Anna Lembke, M.D., author of Dopamine Nation: Finding Balance in the Age of Indulgence “ Rise Above is a call to action for anyone who feels stuck in a pattern of anger and blame. We always have another choice—to recognize the ownership we have over our own lives, every day—and Scott Barry Kaufman provides an accessible road map for doing just that. It isn’t easy work, but it can be life-changing.” —Lori Gottlieb, bestselling author of Maybe You Should Talk to Someone “Scott Barry Kaufman has made so many contributions to research on creativity, positive psychology, and the science of flourishing. In Rise Above , Kaufman draws on ancient wisdom and modern psychology to address some of the disempowering ideas and mindsets circulating widely in recent decades. Kaufman shows us all how to stand up and walk through the many doors that are always available.” —Jonathan Haidt, bestselling author of The Anxious Generation and coauthor of The Coddling of the American Mind “Few things would perplex people from the past—or hopefully the future—more than people today exaggerating their victimhood and thinking of it as what makes them special. Rise Above gently but firmly takes us back to the normality of forward-looking resilience.” —John McWhorter, New York Times columnist and bestselling author of Nine Nasty Words and Pronoun Trouble “A big part of success in business and life is learning how to deal effectively with things that are beyond your control. The secret is called resilience and Scott Barry Kaufman’s Rise Above is an excellent practical guide for anybody working to build their resilience muscles.” —Scott Galloway, professor of Marketing at NYU Stern School of Business, cohost of the Pivot podcast, and author of The Algebra of Wealth “Scott Barry Kaufman reminds us all of our innate capacity to grow from the challenges we face, even big ones. Rise Above leads us beyond our constricted self-perceptions to a far more expansive and empowered sense of possibility that could be ours.” —Sharon Salzberg, author of Lovingkindness and Real Life “A message that needs to be heard today more than ever. No matter how difficult things get, we always have the power to rise above.” —Mark Manson, bestselling author of The Subtle Art of Not Giv