Also by Deborah Frances-White The Guilty FeministVIRAGO First published in Great Britain in 2025 by Virago Press Copyright © Deborah Frances-White 2025 The moral right of the author has been asserted. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser. A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. ISBN 978-0-349-01583-5 Lyrics on p 1 taken from Hamilton , written by Lin-Manuel Miranda; lyrics © Warner Chappell Music, Inc. Virago Press An imprint of Little, Brown Book Group Carmelite House 50 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0DZ The authorised representative in the EEA is Hachette Ireland 8 Castlecourt Centre Dublin 15, D15 XTP3 , Ireland (email: info@hbgi.ie ) An Hachette UK Company www.hachette.co.uk www.littlebrown.co.ukFor Steve, who is made of the same ancient star as me, and with whom I am having the most fervent, fearless, fathomless conversation of my life. For Wesley, a dear friend and trusted colleague with whom I have learned to argue well and honestly – and who was an immense support with this book. And for our darling Cal, who we tragically and unexpectedly lost while I was writing this book. A world-class conversationalist and wordsmith, glorious friend and trusted confidante who did everything she could to leave this world better than she found it – with empathy, intention, joy and play. We discussed the ideas in this book while we toured together and she constantly encouraged me to write with honesty and courage. I miss her so.Contents Introduction Toolkit: Things You Need to Know to Read This Book Well Conversation One: The Conversation about Why We Can’t Have Conversations Any More Conversation Two: Does History Have a Right Side? Conversation Three: The Conversation about Gender Nonconformity Conversation Four: The Conversation about Comedy and Freedom of Speech Conversation Five: The Conversation about Cancel Culture Conversation Six: What Are We Going to Do about All This? Notes Acknowledgements IndexIntroduction I n October 2016, one month before Hillary Clinton was sure to be elected President of the United States, I was hanging around in an airport in Washington DC when I saw a TV news report that made me spit my coffee out. Footage had been discovered of presidential candidate Donald Trump engaged in what he called ‘locker-room talk’, boasting that he could ‘grab women by the pussy’ because of his fame. Lyrics from the musical Hamilton went through my head: ‘He’s never gonna be president now.’ In truth I had never once believed he was capable of winning anyway, but this horror show of a recording in which he had forgotten the cardinal rule – every mi