Contents Cover Title Page Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Chapter 11 Chapter 12 Chapter 13 Chapter 14 Chapter 15 Chapter 16 Thank you! More from Christy McKellen About the Author Also by Christy McKellen Boldwood Ever After About Boldwood Books Copyright Cover Title Page Contents Beginning More from Christy McKellen About the Author CopyrightSO THAT HAPPENED CHRISTY MCKELLENCONTENTS Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Chapter 11 Chapter 12 Chapter 13 Chapter 14 Chapter 15 Chapter 16 Thank you! More from Christy McKellen About the Author Also by Christy McKellen Boldwood Ever After About Boldwood Books1 Connor Preston couldn’t believe his eyes. She was sitting on his bed in the moonlight, brazen as you like, with her slender back curved towards him. One arm propped her up, taking her weight, and her head was dipped, as if she were posing for one of those romance book covers he used to see in the airport newsagents. He guessed she’d just got out of the shower, because her long blonde hair hung in wet clumps around her shoulders. He watched in irritation as a water droplet ran down the line of her spine before dripping onto his bedspread. Through his travel-weary eyes she seemed to cast a glow in front of her, as if all the excessive cheeriness she used to force on him day after day radiated from her. Katherine Meers. He’d thought he’d finally convinced her it was over between them, but here she was, waiting naked in his bed again, in his holiday home this time. A holiday home that he couldn’t remember ever telling her about. Was nowhere a safe haven from her neediness? ‘What the hell are you doing here, Katherine?’ He knew his voice was gruff and unfriendly – nothing like the laid-back drawl he’d cultivated over the years – but he was tired and grumpy and not in the mood for another showdown with his stalker ex-girlfriend. But even that didn’t explain the way she reacted. Her scream was so loud he thought he felt his eardrums perforating. Her whole body jerked in fright and something gleamed momentarily in a wide arc in front of her, before raining down onto the bed with a worryingly loud splat. Hair flying, she twisted round towards him and he caught a tantalising flash of her pert breasts – which were rather larger than he remembered – before she grabbed a towel, which was lying on the bed, and whipped it around her. Gazing at her shocked face in the pale glow of the moonlight, he realised he’d made a mistake. This wasn’t Katherine. This was an altogether different problem. * * * Josie’s heart slammed against her chest as adrenaline ricocheted through her body. After staring at her laptop in the dark for the last ten minutes she had to work hard to get her eyes to focus on the shadowy shape in front of her. She could barely make out the features of the enormous man standing at the foot of the bed, but she’