Systems Engineering Demystified Second Edition Apply modern, model-based systems engineering techniques to build complex systems Jon Holt BIRMINGHAM—MUMBAI Systems Engineering Demystified Second Edition Copyright © 2023 Packt Publishing All rights reserved . No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or reviews. Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. However, the information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the author, nor Packt Publishing or its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to have been caused directly or indirectly by this book. Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information. Senior Publishing Product Manager: Denim Pinto Acquisition Editor – Peer Reviews: Gaurav Gavas Project Editor: Namrata Katare Content Development Editor: Rebecca Robinson Copy Editor: Safis Editing Technical Editor: Karan Sonawane Proofreader: Safis Editing Indexer: Subalakshmi Govindhan Presentation Designer: Ganesh Bhadwalkar Developer Relations Marketing Executive: Meghal Patel First published: January 2021 Second edition: July 2023 Production reference: 1190723 Published by Packt Publishing Ltd. Grosvenor House 11 St Paul's Square Birmingham B3 1RB, UK. ISBN 978-1-80461-068-8 www.packt.com Foreword Systems Engineering is an often-misunderstood discipline that integrates various aspects of engineering to successfully develop Systems. Lack of knowledge creates and feeds myths. In fact, it is not so easy to understand what Systems Engineering is. A Mechanical Engineer can show mechanical parts, an Electrical Engineer can show electrical components, and a Software Engineer can show source code and running software to demonstrate their discipline. If Systems Engineers show the System to demonstrate their discipline, the other engineers would complain that all the System parts were developed by them. Often, the discipline of Systems Engineering is noticed primarily when it is not present. So, there are a lot of good breeding grounds for myths. Fortunately, Jon Holt is a brilliant writer who explains Systems Engineering in a vivid, concise, and clear way. In this book, he dispels these myths and clarifies the concepts and principles of Systems Engineering in a simple and engaging way. He covers the essential topics of Systems Engineering and emphasizes the importance of model-based Systems Engineering, which is the most effective and efficient way to realize Systems Engineering. However, this book is not a SysML textbook; i