What Readers Are Saying “After having what I think was a mild anxiety attack, I picked up your book to distract myself. Not only did it get me out of my panic state, it truly gave me a sense of direction. I read it over three days at a very slow pace, writing down all the things that I knew I needed to work on or had never even considered before. The latter half of 2019 ended up being one of the most productive, driven, and happiest times of my life.” —Bhavishya G., Hyderabad, India “This book absolutely nails what it’s like to be a frightened, confused, despairing twentysomething fed useless platitudes about how the world works from movies, newspapers, friends, and even parents.” —Michael S., Calgary, Alberta, Canada “Reading your book was like having someone read a transcript of the thoughts, feelings, attitudes, etc., bouncing through the chamber inside my head.” —Laura S., Los Angeles, California “I’m sure you’ve heard it so many times, but I feel that this book was written about me.” —Oded W., Tel Aviv, Israel “I am thirty-one and am trying to catch up. I have been looking for your book without realizing it for some time.” —Moya R., Oakland, California “I expected The Defining Decade to be cliché and full of ‘carpe diem’ sentiments. I’m so glad I was wrong. To say it was life-changing would not suffice. My copy is saturated in highlighter and ink. Everything was relevant. Everything was helpful. Everything in the book spoke to me in a way that no book, parent, friend, or advisor ever has. Though I’d been trying to get my life together, I started trying harder. I gained a new perspective. I made myself a timeline. I recommended your book to all my twentysomething friends and even lent out my copy, scribbles and highlights included. I finished the book feeling relieved almost. You are speaking directly to a generation that is often spoken down to or dismissed.” —Tessa V., Istanbul, Turkey “Your book was life-changing, and I feel liberated. I have a sense of direction now, a purpose, and I’m telling everyone about it.” —Eva G., Chicago, Illinois “I keep writing rough drafts to try to convey how important this book is to me at this moment in time in my life. I cannot express my thankfulness that someone gets it. I am twenty-four and always had the sense I was throwing my life away, but everyone tells me ‘Don’t worry, it will all work out. You are only twenty-four.’ Thank you for the cold water to the face. Every single page directly applied to me. I want to buy this book for all of my twentysomething friends. I literally felt like you were talking to me directly, which in itself was an awesome experience.” —Ryan L-K., Sacramento, California “Thank you for this book. It is everything people in my age bracket (including myself) are talking about but not getting to the heart of.” —Amanda S., Long Island, New York “I would have to say I’m one of those people that are currently playing catch-up. I really wish I was able to read this book when I was i