THE ENGINEER’S MECHANIC BOOK 1 OF THE METICITY SERIES L. K. WINTUR YELLOW PANDA PUBLISHINGCopyright © 2024 by L. K. Wintur Yellow Panda Publishing All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. ePub ISBN: 979-8-9893660-1-9 Paperback ISBN: 979-8-9893660-0-2CONTENTS_ Chapter One Chapter Two Chapter Three Chapter Four Chapter Five Chapter Six Chapter Seven Chapter Eight Chapter Nine Chapter Ten Chapter Eleven Chapter Twelve Chapter Thirteen Chapter Fourteen Chapter Fifteen Chapter Sixteen Chapter Seventeen Chapter Eighteen Chapter Nineteen Chapter Twenty Chapter Twenty-One Chapter Twenty-Two Chapter Twenty-Three Chapter Twenty-Four Chapter Twenty-Five Chapter Twenty-Six Chapter Twenty-Seven Chapter Twenty-Eight Chapter Twenty-nine Chapter Thirty Chapter Thirty-One Chapter Thirty-Two Chapter Thirty-Three Chapter Thirty-Four Chapter Thirty-Five: Taxia’s Story Chapter Thirty-Six Chapter Thirty-Seven Chapter Thirty-Eight Chapter Thirty-Nine Chapter Forty Chapter Forty-One Chapter Forty-Two Author’s Note Free gift for my readersCHAPTER ONE_ “Can’t we wait outside?” I ask, looking over at the glass door that leads to the balcony. “Why? There’s only one person in front of us,” Migo gestures to a woman sitting a few chairs down. Her eyes are fluttering slightly but never completely open. Leaning back in the chair, she rests her head against the wall behind her. She’s completely gone. Tapped-in. I stare blankly at Migo as if I didn’t hear him. After an awkward moment of silence, he gives in, shrugging defeatedly. “...I guess we’ll wait outside then. Zeesh, Ren. You’re really a walking stereotype, you know that?” He groans, getting up from his seat. “Stereotype? What stereotype?” I ask, following his lead. “The one that says sandscavengers can’t ever stop moving.” “The settlement hasn’t moved since you left, and we haven’t been nomadic since the ‘90s. You’re runnin’ on outdated software, Migo,” I explain. “Yeah, yeah.” He begrudgingly leads the way outside to the balcony of the repair facility he’s brought us to. Because only his credentials can open the door, it feels sort of like I'm being chaperoned. We probably look like an odd pair, too. I’m still in my dirty mechanic overalls from work; Migo, on the other hand, is wearing MetiCity-6’s latest fashion, equipped with advanced coolant tech and vital monitoring. They’re ‘2120 exclusives’; he loves to remind me every new year. The number seems to keep rising in tandem with his ego. “You’ve got this glacious view of the city, and you want to sit inside watching that zombie surf?” I say, leaning up against a guardrail that borders the balcony we’re on. He rolls his eyes. I peer out over the cityscape and fix my gaze upon the large semi-transparent dome that covers it all. I follow the light shi