








Who Moved My Cheese?  

An A-Mazing Way To Deal With Change In Your Work And In Your Life 



Who Moved My Cheese?  is a simple parable that reveals profound truths about change. It is an amusing and enlightening story of four characters who live in a 'Maze' and look for 'Cheese' to nourish them and make them happy. 



Two are mice named Sniff and Scurry. And two are little people' - beings the size of mice who look and act a lot like people. Their names are Hem and Haw. 'Cheese' is a metaphor for what you want to have in life - whether it's a good job, a loving relationship, money, a possession, good health, or spiritual peace of mind. And 'The Maze' is where you look for what you want - the organization you work in, or the family or community you live in. 



In the story, the characters are faced with unexpected change. Eventually, one of them deals with it successfully, and writes what he has learned from his experience on the maze walls. 



When you come to see 'The Handwriting on the Wal ', you can discover for yourself how to deal with change, so that you can enjoy less stress and more success (however you define it) in your work and in your life. 



Written for all ages, this story takes less than an hour to read, but its unique insights can last for a lifetime. 



Who Moved My Cheese?  

Contents 



Parts of Al  of Us  



A Gathering: Chicago  



Who Moved My Cheese?: The Story  



Four Characters 

Finding Cheese 

No Cheese! 

The Mice: Sniff & Scurry 

The Little people: Hem & Haw 

Meanwhile, Back In the Maze 

Getting Beyond Fear 

Enjoying The Adventure 

Moving With The Cheese 

The Handwriting On The Wal  

Tasting New Cheese 

Enjoying Change! 



A Discussion: Later That Same Day  



New Cheese ! 



Parts of All of Us 

The Simple and The Complex The four imaginary characters  

depicted in this story —the mice: "Sniff" and "Scurry;' and the Little people: "Hem" and "Haw" —are intended to represent the simple and the complex parts of ourselves, regardless of 

our age, gender, race or nationality. 



Sometimes we may act like 



Sniff 

Who sniffs out change early, or 



Scurry 

Who scurries into action, or 



Hem 

Who denies and resists change as he fears 

it will lead to something worse, or 



Haw 

Who learns to adapt in time when he sees 

changing can lead to something  better! 



Whatever parts of us we choose to use, 

we all share something in common: 

a need to find our way in the Maze 

and succeed in changing times. 





A Gathering 

Chicago 



One sunny Sunday in Chicago, several former classmates, who were good friends in school, gathered for lunch, having attended their high school reunion the night before. They wanted to hear more about what was happening in each other's lives.  After a good deal of kidding, and a good meal, they settled into an interesting conversation. 



Angela, who had been one of the most popular people in the class, said, "Life sure turned out differently th