PRAISE FOR Why Nations Fail
“Acemoglu and Robinson have made an important contribution to the
debate as to why similar-looking nations differ so greatly in their
economic and political development. Through a broad multiplicity of
historical examples, they show how institutional developments,
sometimes based on very accidental circumstances, have had
enormous consequences. The openness of a society, its willingness to
permit creative destruction, and the rule of law appear to be decisive
for economic development.”
—Kenneth J. Arrow, Nobel laureate in economics, 1972
“The authors convincingly show that countries escape poverty only
when they have appropriate economic institutions, especially private
property and competition. More originally, they argue countries are
more likely to develop the right institutions when they have an open
pluralistic political system with competition for political office, a
widespread electorate, and openness to new political leaders. This
intimate connection between political and economic institutions is the
heart of their major contribution, and has resulted in a study of great
vitality on one of the crucial questions in economics and political
economy.”
—Gary S. Becker, Nobel laureate in economics, 1992
“This important and insightful book, packed with historical examples,
makes the case that inclusive political institutions in support of
inclusive economic institutions is key to sustained prosperity. The
book reviews how some good regimes got launched and then had a
virtuous spiral, while bad regimes remain in a vicious spiral. This is
important analysis not to be missed.”
—Peter Diamond, Nobel laureate in economics, 2010
“For those who think that a nation’s economic fate is determined by
geography or culture, Daron Acemoglu and Jim Robinson have bad
news. It’s manmade institutions, not the lay of the land or the faith of
our forefathers, that determine whether a country is rich or poor.
Synthesizing brilliantly the work of theorists from Adam Smith to
Douglass North with more recent empirical research by economic
historians, Acemoglu and Robinson have produced a compelling and
highly readable book.”
—Niall Ferguson, author of The Ascent of Money
“Acemoglu and Robinson—two of the world’s leading experts on
development—reveal why it is not geography, disease, or culture that
explain why some nations are rich and some poor, but rather a matter
of institutions and politics. This highly accessible book provides
welcome insight to specialists and general readers alike.”
—Francis Fukuyama, author of The End of History and the Last
Man and The Origins of Political Order
“A brilliant and uplifting book—yet also a deeply disturbing wake-up
call. Acemoglu and Robinson lay out a convincing theory of almost
everything to do with economic development. Countries rise when
they put in place the right pro-growth political institutions and they
fail—often spectacularly—when those institutions ossify or fail to
adapt. Powerful people 