For My parents, who teach me. Gretchen, who guides me. Miles and Reese, who inspire me.Introduction: The Greatest Show On Earth 1. No One’s Crazy 2. Luck & Risk 3. Never Enough 4. Confounding Compounding 5. Getting Wealthy vs. Staying Wealthy 6. Tails, You Win 7. Freedom 8. Man in the Car Paradox 9. Wealth is What You Don’t See 10. Save Money 11. Reasonable > Rational 12. Surprise! 13. Room for Error 14. You’ll Change 15. Nothing’s Free 16. You & Me 17. The Seduction of Pessimism 18. When You’ll Believe Anything 19. All Together Now 20. Confessions Postscript: A Brief History of Why the U.S. Consumer Thinks the Way They Do Endnotes Acknowledgements Publishing details“A genius is the man who can do the average thing when everyone else around him is losing his mind.” —Napoleon “The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance ever observes.” —Sherlock HolmesIspent my college years working as a valet at a nice hotel in Los Angeles. One frequent guest was a technology executive. He was a genius, having designed and patented a key component in Wi-Fi routers in his 20s. He had started and sold several companies. He was wildly successful. He also had a relationship with money I’d describe as a mix of insecurity and childish stupidity. He carried a stack of hundred dollar bills several inches thick. He showed it to everyone who wanted to see it and many who didn’t. He bragged openly and loudly about his wealth, often while drunk and always apropos of nothing. One day he handed one of my colleagues several thousand dollars of cash and said, “Go to the jewelry store down the street and get me a few $1,000 gold coins.” An hour later, gold coins in hand, the tech executive and his buddies gathered around by a dock overlooking the Pacific Ocean. They then proceeded to throw the coins into the sea, skipping them like rocks, cackling as they argued whose went furthest. Just for fun. Days later he shattered a lamp in the hotel’s restaurant. A manager told him it was a $500 lamp and he’d have to replace it. “You want five hundred dollars?” the executive asked incredulously, while pulling a brick of cash from his pocket and handing it to the manager. “Here’s five thousand dollars. Now get out of my face. And don’t ever insult me like that again.” You may wonder how long this behavior could last, and the answer was “not long.” I learned years later that he went broke. The premise of this book is that doing well with money has a little to do with how smart you are and a lot to do with how you behave. And behavior is hard to teach, even to really smart people. A genius who loses control of their emotions can be a financial disaster. The opposite is also true. Ordinary folks with no financial education can be wealthy if they have a handful of behavioral skills that have nothing to do with formal measures of intelligence. My favorite Wikipedia entry begins: “Ronald James Read was an American philanthropist, investor, janitor, and gas station attendant.” R