Published in 2017 by The School of Life 70 Marchmont Street, London WC1N 1AB Copyright © The School of Life 2017 Designed and typeset by FLOK, Berlin Printed in Latvia by Livonia Print All rights reserved. This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated without the express prior consent of the publisher. A proportion of this book has appeared online at thebookoflife.org. Every effort has been made to contact the copyright holders of the material reproduced in this book. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publisher will be pleased to make restitution at the earliest opportunity. The School of Life offers programmes, publications and services to assist modern individuals in their quest to live more engaged and meaningful lives. We’ve also developed a collection of content-rich, design-led retail products to promote useful insights and ideas from culture. www.theschooloflife.com ISBN 978-1-9997471-8-3 Excerpt from ‘Little Gidding’ from Four Quartets, 1942, T.S. Eliot. Copyright 1942 T.S. Eliot; Copyright © renewed 1970 by Esme Valerie Eliot. Reprinted by permission of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company and Faber and Faber, Ltd. All rights reserved.The School of Life Dictionary The Language of Emotional IntelligenceContents Introduction A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W Thematic IndexIntroduction A dictionary is a guide to language. This is a dictionary for the distinctive language that the School of Life ‘speaks’, which is that of emotions. It is a selection of words and phrases that sheds light on our feelings about ourselves, other people and the workings of the modern world. Too often, we’re left fighting for a way to explain our emotional intentions; this dictionary is a tool to help us convey our meanings with economy and precision. The School of Life is an organisation with a simple mission: to increase the amount of Emotional Intelligence in circulation. We seek more emotionally intelligent kinds of relationships, workplaces, economies and culture. What structures our thinking – found in the dictionary entries in the pages ahead – are eight central themes, which unfold as follows: 1. Self-Knowledge Socrates, the earliest and greatest of philosophers, summed up the purpose of philosophy in one resonant phrase: ‘know yourself’. A capacity for self-knowledge is at the heart of our inclinations to forgiveness, kindness, creativity and wise decision-making, especially around love and work. Unfortunately, knowing ourselves is the (always unfinished) task of a lifetime. We are permanently elusive and mysterious to ourselves. We have to catch our real intentions and feelings obliquely, with some of the patience of a lepidopterist. One of the tasks of culture is to offer us tools to assist us with the task of self-knowledge. We need a vocabulary to name feelings and states of mind; we need encouragement to be alone with ourselves at regular moments; we ne