“Fran is the #1 expert in the art of flirting. The Secret Rules of Flirting is a fabulous read that will teach you the most practical and stress-free ways to turn your flirt on anytime, anywhere, any place and still keep your cool. It’s like a crash course in flirting.“ —Marianne Garvey, relationships writer/editor, BravoTV.com “If you want to ignite the flirt within you, The Secret Rules of Flirting will show you the way! Fran guides you to finding the love of your life and enjoying every second of it. It’s uplifting, optimistic, and very practical.” —Gayle Kirschenbaum, Emmy award–winning filmmaker, TED speaker, and writer “Flirting is an essential nugget in your dating toolkit. Fran Greene’s book provides excellent tips on how to flirt both online and offline to help you find your dream date.” —Julie Spira, author of The Perils of Cyber-Dating “After working with Fran, you’ll be able to charm anyone, no matter the situation. And it’s all because she eats, breathes, and sleeps flirting!” —Hayley Matthews, DatingAdvice.com “In this book, Fran eloquently describes how to interject fun and joy into ordinary encounters and explains why making people smile is the key to enjoying every day and building meaningful connections.” —Sheila O’Connor, regional director, Tribal Tech LLC “ The Secret Rules of Flirting is packed with the best flirting advice I have ever seen! Confident flirting is a skill that CAN be learned and practiced. And Fran is the perfect combination of a wing woman, coach, and drill sergeant to help you up your game. I wish I had this book when I was single.” —Regina Robinson, president, RM Robinson Solutions LLC “Flirting is the key to making a connection with any new potential mate. Fran gives you the tips and tricks that make it easy and fun and guarantee success.” —Delaina Dixon, DivaGalsDaily.com “Fran Greene is the expert on that essential part of dating… the flirt. She provides excellent advice on how to flirt face-to-face and on all the social media sites. Her techniques will undoubtedly get you closer to finding your perfect someone.” —David Wheeler, founder and CEO, SettleForLove.com “Fran is a true flirting expert! She will teach you how to turn on the charm when approaching or meeting someone who sparks your interest. A must read if you are looking for the love of your life. It could be just a click away.” —Charles Messow, founder, Cove dating app “Fran Greene hits the mark with her wonderful insights that are sure to be a hit for anyone seeking to step up their flirting game!” —Joelle A. Perez, Esq, divorce mediator “Thank goodness The Secret Rules of Flirting are not secret anymore! Fran Greene is finally revealing her juiciest and most powerful tricks and tools to unlock your natural flirtiness and charisma.” —Catherine Behan, divorce recovery expert at BreakupCandy.com “ The Secret Rules of Flirting offers wise, supportive suggestions and is a how-to manual for being bold and confident.“ —Myra Terry, former president, 