The Vulnerable Man was first published in Swedish as Sårbar man – Vägen till inre styrka in 2019. Copyright © 2019, 2021 Thomas Anderson All rights reserved. No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission from the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews. For permission requests, check author’s website for contact information. All identifying details, including names, have been changed except for those that pertain to the author’s family members and close friends. This book is not intended as a substitute for advice from a trained professional. First English edition published by Trignite in 2021. isbn : 978-91-519-0938-7 Editor and translator: Carl Ahlstrand Cover design: Gabriella Brantdahl Typeset: Emma Bonath Visit the author’s website at www.thomasanderson.se Tr i g niteContent Introduction What You Need to Know About Me Before You Read My Diary The Road to Burnout Is Paved with Good Intentions Breaking Patterns The Eye Opener New Habits The Importance of Breaking Down Three Major Life Changes New Life Perspectives—El Camino The Road Back Honest Towards Myself and Others Letting Go Standing Up for Yourself Reclaiming My Life Conclusion Acknowledgements Self-Reflection Workbook My Book Menuchapter 1 Introduction “ I might as well kill myself, that’s what I’ve been thinking. ” This is what I wrote in my diary in July 2015. The idea of suicide came and went, as it had done for years. When I was in my darkest place, these thoughts came at night and I made plans to make it look like an accident. It had to be that way because I am a person who is always trying to help others, and suicide wouldn’t allow my family to benefit from my life insurance. So, how to do it? Fall off a bridge and drown? Perhaps a car accident? I never spoke to anyone about these thoughts—I mean, what would they think of me, that I was mentally ill. I think that there are a lot of us out there harboring thoughts and feelings that we don’t talk about. We construct a wall to hide behind because we are afraid to show who we really are. This wall can stop us from learning how to handle and understand our emotions and feelings. We get stuck in an “emotional prison,” either paralyzed, depressed, seeking different avenues of escape, or acting out, triggered by different situations. We live in a society where we are supposed to be strong; we mustn’t let our feelings show or be vulnerable and perceived as weak—and this might be especially so for men. The last few years of my life have been transformative; I have broken old patterns and I have discovered and understood more about myself. I have seen how my fear of sharing my feelings and being myself has held me back, and I have come to realize that through the years I started playing roles, and not being truly myself. Nowadays I understand and handle the emotions and feelings that arise in different situations, they don’t stop me from