An overview of machine and deep learning-based
intrusion detection systems in the Internet of Things
Oumeima Boubertakh1, Ramdane Maamri1 and Ali Sahnoun1
1LIRE Laboratory, University of Constantine 2 Abdelhamid Mehri
Abstract
The Internet of Things (IoT) is one of the hottest topics in the industrial and academic fields in recent
years, and it is regarded as the next revolution of the internet. IoT security and privacy issues have proven
to be critical targets.Since IoT devices have less memory, processing power, and power consumption,
traditional security mechanisms are ineffective.Thus, A security mechanism called an Intrusion Detection
System (IDS) has an important role in securing IoT nodes and networks.Machine learning and deep
learning techniques have been proposed for automatic intrusion detection and abnormal behavior
identification of networks.Hence, in this filed, the types of IDS, the recent research, and contributions to
IDS in IoT networks are discussed in this paper.
Keywords
Internet of Things, Intrusion Detection Systems, Machine Learning, Deep Learning
1. Introduction
The Internet of Things (IoT) is one of the most rapidly evolving technological trends in recent
years.According to [1] the number of IoT devices will reach 75 billion by 2025.Moreover,IoT
is a new technology that collects data from the physical world and then transmits it over the
internet to be exchanged, processed, and stored. By using actuators and smart appliances, the
collected data is used to extract information and act on the physical world[2] Moreover,IoT has
noticeably increased human day activities such as the delivery of efficient healthcare services
and the development of smart cities,homes and intelligent transportation systems[3].Because of
the resource limitations of the IoT, and the explosion in the number of unsecured IoT devices
connected to the global network, IoT devices are more vulnerable and can be easily exploited by
an attacker. Hence, the demands of IoT security is paramount.According to the literature, many
works provide security in the IoT by utilizing cryptography based security mechanisms such
as symmetric key cryptosystems and public key cryptosystems. Furthermore, cryptographic
security mechanisms are primarily used to detect external attacks such as eavesdropping and
message alteration.When the encryption methods hold the valid key and are compromised by
the attack,they are unable to detect the vulnerable nodes. Attackers can easily obtain security
details from compromised nodes and launch a series of internal intrusions[4]. As a result, the
IDS serves as a tool to provide an additional level of security to the IoT.
RIF’23: The 12th Seminary of Computer Science Research at Feminine, March 09, 2023, Constantine, Algeria
$ oumeima.boubertakh@univ-constantine2.dz (O. Boubertakh); ramdane.maamri@univ-constantine2.dz
(R. Maamri); ali.sahnoun.@univ-constantine2.dz (A. Sahnoun)
© 2023 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted 